{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 "Introduction" \fs28\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 [intro_sentence1] It is the year 2084. Earth, never the most stable of places, enjoys a time of relative peace. The violent beginnings of the 21st century are far away now; distant memories, but not so distant that they've been forgotten. To most of Earth's people, the Second Cold War is a dark shadow from the past, much like the World Wars were to the children of the late 20th.\par
[intro_sentence2] Conflicts have gotten rarer near the end of the century as new technology and universal health-care finally became available to the third world. Even the fires of terrorism have cooled in the wake of the Second Cold War, with its horrors and inhumanities still fresh in the minds of the people, from the old United States to the ravaged Indian subcontinent.  Class struggles are ascending to the political battlefield now that every nation is guaranteed fair representation in the UN, and the global standard of living is slowly on the rise down to the most impoverished corners of the planet. Countries have solidified, stabilised around a restructured United Nations that successfully polices the world governments. Fragmented clumps of smaller nations, frightened at first by the vast power blocks accumulating around China and the European Union, have banded together into powerful political leagues of their own -- then found themselves with no neighbours they could safely fight. For the first time in the history of mankind, there is law and order across more than three quarters of the world.\par
[intro_sentence3] To many people on Earth, it seems like things are going all right.\par
[intro_sentence4] The first attack hits the city of Mumbai on the 3rd of March, 2084. Six small UFOs appear out of nowhere and come screaming down from orbit, undetected by the vast radar installations covering the skies over Mumbai, and set down in the single most densely-populated city on Earth. They offer no warning, no explanation. Twenty thousand innocent civilians and three battalions of elite troops are massacred over the course of twelve brutal hours before massed Commonwealth soldiers manage to bring the aliens' advance to a standstill. Then, as suddenly as they appeared, they retreat to their craft and vanish back into orbit, leaving only the ravaged streets of Mumbai as evidence.\par
[intro_sentence5] An emergency meeting of the UN provides no conclusive direction. The incursions continue faster, larger and more savage than before, this time in Bonn, Johannesburg and Bangkok. Some nations attempt diplomacy, sending messages in a thousand different languages to the aliens ravaging across the countryside. Their words are ignored. Within hours, all three cities are emptied of human life. The attack is over by the time the various militaries are given permission to strike back. The aliens leave nothing behind them but concrete and blood. All the UFOs disappear without a trace -- but no one doubts they'll be back.\par
[intro_sentence6] Eighty-seven hours after the initial attack on Mumbai, Earth declares war. For two weeks, the armies of humanity each try to fend off the mysterious alien attackers to the best of their ability. They score precious few successes.\par
[intro_sentence7] Left with only one alternative, the UN takes action. Ancient equipment is dusted off, some of it more than a century old, and the long-defunct anti-extraterrestrial agency of the former United States -- PHALANX -- is resurrected under a new UN banner. Its sworn duty is to combat the alien threat, and to ensure the survival of the human race at all costs.\par
[intro_sentence8] Funded by all eight of the political powers, and drawing its soldiers from the elite of their armies, PHALANX is the best of the best. It is Earth's first and only line of defence. It can't afford to fail; because if it does, humanity doesn't stand a chance.\par
\fs24\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b "First instructions" \par
\pard\b0\fs20\par
[prolog_sentence1] \lang1033\b\f1 TO:\tab\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\lang2057\f0 [prolog_sentence2] \lang1033\b\f1 FROM:\b0\tab SecGen. Mahouf Serra, United Nations, New York City\par
\par
\lang2057\f0 [prolog_sentence3] \lang1033\b\f1 DATE:\b0\tab 01 January 2084\par
\par
\lang2057\f0 [prolog_sentence4] \lang1033\b\f1 SUB:\b0\tab Good Luck\par
\par
\lang2057\f0 [prolog_sentence5] Welcome to your new post, Commander. You now have full command over the PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit. Your mission is to protect the citizens of Earth and stop the alien threat at all costs. How you accomplish this is up to you; our only requirement is that you succeed. \par
\par
[prolog_sentence6] Your first order of business is to set up a headquarters. The UN has access to military bases all over the world, so you may consider any region for your base of operations. Choose the location wisely, because it will have great influence on the success of the PHALANX project.\par
\par
[prolog_sentence7] A recent analysis of the attacks on Mumbai and Bonn reveal that UFO sightings and alien activity seems to focus on the most densely populated regions of Earth, including coastal North- and South-America, Europe, Eastasia, South and Mediterranean Africa, and Australia. You should consider including these territories in your field of operations.\par
\par
[prolog_sentence8] Once you've established your first base, you must prepare your soldiers. The recruits we have assigned to PHALANX must be stationed on your dropship, then equipped for battle.\par
\par
[prolog_sentence9] Take care of them, Commander. The rest of us are all counting on you, and praying for you.\par
\par
[prolog_sentence10] That is all. Good luck and good hunting.\par
\lang1033\b\par
\f1\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\f0\fs24 "Political Situation Before The Invasion" \fs20\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 In the year 2084, Earth is in better shape than it has been for more than a century. Perhaps for the first time, peace and cooperation are the norm rather than the exception. The current state of affairs, however, can only be explained through the brutal history of the 21st century.\par
In the first decade of the 21st, the Middle-East was the greatest concern of nations around the world. Tensions increased when Iran, Syria, Jordan and Afghanistan formed the Middle-Eastern alliance, a political body to unite the Islamic world. Soon after, democratic elections in Iraq caused the United States to lose control of the country, and Iraq joined the Middle-Eastern Alliance along with Pakistan and Lebanon later that year. In a panic, Israel threw in its lot with the expanding European Union, thus forcing itself to abide by increasingly strict EU laws on human rights and warfare. Its military presence in the region was significantly reduced over the years as a result.\par
However, as 2009 turned into 2010, attentions turned away from the Middle-East as the increasingly bold power grabs by China started to make waves. The People's Republic had been nibbling away at its neighbours for several years, but in December of 2010, after decades of harsh words and grim promises, Taiwan was finally conquered by a full-scale Chinese military invasion. The UN gave several sternly-worded reprimands which were summarily ignored. The international community debated the issue at length, and did nothing.\par
The Second Cold War between the old United States and China began when China annexed North and South Korea in 2012, after secret agents managed to disable North Korea's entire nuclear arsenal for the length of the three-day invasion. The well-trained and equipped People's Army vastly outnumbered the Korean divisions; they occupied both countries long before the Koreans could even begin to receive aid from overseas. The move drew even more ire from the UN and cooled diplomatic relations between China and Russia for decades to come.\par
Tensions around the world remained high during the length of the Second Cold War, with rebellions the order of the day in the newly-subjugated Chinese territories, but ultimately neither China nor the US was ready to commit to nuclear annihilation.\par
The war technically came to an end in 2031, as the US economy crumbled under a crushing military budget and deficit interest rates that exceeded the country's entire gross national product. Meanwhile, having become increasingly liberal during the Cold War years, China took on the mantle of world leader without knowing quite what to do with it. Its leaders perhaps became drunk with power, a little too hungry, a little too proud. Using the army to try and enforce their decision, they attempted to revert the country to the brutal Stalinist oppression of the 20th century. The people did not approve.\par
The ensuing civil war was like nothing Earth had ever seen. Officers often referred to it as the bastard child of Vietnam and the First World War. It saw firebombing of entire populations, mass executions of prisoners of war, and tactical nuclear strikes on several cities -- including Shanghai, Seoul and New Delhi -- on 7 June 2034. Government loyalists dropped a total of six 50-kiloton devices on heavily-defended rebel positions, including the civilian populations the rebels were protecting.\par
The loyalist army suffered massive desertions in the days that followed; it was the single event that eventually spelled doom for the government. More than six million lives were lost before the surrender of loyalist forces on 15 August 2036, having fought tooth and nail and employed large-scale scorched earth tactics as the rebels slowly drove them into the Indian Ocean. This is the official ending of the Second Cold War.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b\fs22\par
\fs24 "After the War" \fs20\par
\b0\par
\b\fs22 The Asian Republic\par
\b0\fs20 In the years that followed, the reformed Republic of China -- taking up its old, pre-Communist name -- slowly relinquished its conquered territories, including those seized in centuries past, offering them a choice between independence or a seat on the new governmental council as an equal and respected part of the new Republic. Having fought on the rebel side throughout the civil war, Taiwan was the first to merge with the new Republic, reconciling its differences with the mainland after the surrender of the Communist government. Taiwan quickly became a major player in the new council and was instrumental in sending the captured government leaders off to The Hague to face a war crimes tribunal. North Korea, another rebel nation, also elected to remain in the Republic, sensing opportunities for greater economic growth and freedom from dictatorship. They would not be disappointed.\par
The resurgence of the Chinese economy was dubbed a miracle by contemporary historians. The first breakthroughs in nanotechnology were made by Chinese researchers, bringing in vast medical-industrial contracts from all over the world. Despite old hatreds and mistrust, other east-Asian nations slowly joined the Republic, which was soon redubbed the Asian Republic to honour its new members. Even Japan eventually joined to bolster its flagging economy and a population which had dwindled through the war years. The Republic continued mostly true to its principles with the civil war still fresh in mind. Over the years it made a reputation for dealing with all its member nations in good faith, and built enough trust and solidarity that it can now speak with a single voice for all the billions of people of south-east Asia. \par
Today, the Asian Republic's economy has all but recovered due to the commercialisation of nanotech and holographics. It still possesses a strong and up-to-date military, trained to a higher standard than any other country.\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b\fs22 The Revolutionary Countries\par
\b0\fs20 With the successive fall of both the United States and China, Socialism in South-America waxed and waned during the post-war years. The US's economic death brought on a surge of revolutionary fervor, swaying several nations away from the influence of capitalism. However, with a democratic framework already halfway in place in most countries, the ideal of rule of the people could for the first time be realised without corruption. This new wave proposed to unite the principles of democracy with true Socialist ideals.\par
The whole continent watched in horror at the nuclear devastation of Shanghai during the Second Cold War, televised all over the globe right up to the final second. The new wave suffered another major blow when China fell. In that, everyone could see a first-hand example of what might happen to the revolution if it went the way of dictatorship and totalitarianism. It didn't take long for the leaders to respond.\par
Several dictator-led countries immediately tried to turn on the thumbscrews, trying to head off a rebellion before it began, which caused a huge backlash in the larger democratic nations, particularly Cuba, Brazil and Argentina. Suddenly, the last remaining kings of South-America were left with no friends at all.\par
One by one, they caved to public and political pressure and were replaced by elected houses. The revolution picked up speed instead of losing it; they encouraged greater trade, closer integration, and eventually followed Europe's example of open borders. A new network of highways all over the continent strengthened economies and allowed far more efficient use of arable land. South-America's natural riches were tapped like never before, and they demanded fair prices for every bit of it.\par
Today, the member nations have merged so closely that they are better known as a single body: the Revolutionary Countries. One joint government represents the entire continent, and they manage an economical juggernaut surpassed only by the Greater European Union. Their military is small but has state-of-the-art equipment. Their training is not exceptional.\b\fs22\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b\fs22 United America\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 As the US economy started to break down in the late 2020s, more and more people abandoned the country for the greener pastures of Canada and, ironically, Mexico. The value of the dollar plummeted to unprecedented depths, impoverishing millions until its price was fixed by the IMF and the international banking community. The country was then saddled with a brutal reform plan, requiring it to sell off or mothball over half of its military arsenal. To cope with the repayment on sixteen trillion dollars of debt, its interest rate was frozen and its exports shifted to technology and luxury goods. Successful restructuring of NASA, combined with a functional spaceplane prototype, also turned outer space into a money-maker for the post-collapse US. Cape Canaveral began offering the cheapest space launches anywhere on the planet, first with their prototype, later with fully-functional advanced spaceplane designs. This significantly helped the beleaguered country claw its way back towards the black.\par
The cooperation between North-American nations began with financial aid from Canada and Mexico, which saw their exports to the US dipping dangerously and wanted to help fix their most important trading partner. The growing number of expatriates also served to create closer ties. Then, in the most unexpected political turnaround in 2042, Mexico elected the US expatriate Esteban Villa-Lobos Garcia to the office of president.\par
The election was hotly contested. However, the decision held through two recounts, and the new president was inaugurated in July of 2042. Eventually, a combination of sound policies and personal charisma brought most of the country around on Garcia; and then he proposed the Tomorrow Plan.\par
Under the plan, Mexico, Canada and the USA would unite into one country to reawaken the North American superpower. In a number of controversial public votes, the general population in all three countries gave majority support for the Tomorrow Plan; 52% in the United States, 64% in Canada, and 71% in Mexico. The merger was eventually finalised in 2050, creating a United America out of the dominant powers of the New World. The booming space industry quickly spread throughout the new country, and despite a few stumbles along the way, North America steamed headlong towards recovery.\par
Today, UA's debt has decreased from sixteen trillion to two, and standards of living have nearly recovered to what they were before the crash. UA has the most advanced space industry on the planet; NASA performs almost 70% of commercial space launches around the globe. It exports vast quantities of goods to every other nation and is projected to return to solvency in less than three years. Militarily, the UA is the weakest of all the meganations. It has only a small volunteer army and a tiny defence budget as mandated by the IMF. However, what forces the UA does have are highly-trained and can turn on a dime, able to reach any place in the country within two hours.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b\par
\fs22 The Greater European Union \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 Slowly but surely, the European Union has expanded borders further and further with every passing decade. It first moved into the Middle-East when it accepted Israel as an associate member in 2011, and then upgraded both Israel and Turkey to full membership in 2017. Several Atlantic islands were also accepted in the same resolution, making it the single greatest EU expansion of the 21st century.\par
Following Israel's controversial entrance as an associate member, the EU passed stricter laws on human rights, freedom of religion and separation of church and state. It was also the first Western superpower to officially recognise the Middle-Eastern Alliance, and fostered close relations with the Alliance -- despite United States protests -- in the hope of reducing culture clash and the ongoing threat of terrorism. For the most part, they were successful.\par
In 2028, Greenland -- having grown strong due to immigration from the United States -- formally declared its independence from Denmark. No battles were fought; the Danish government grudgingly recognised the independence due to political pressure from other European countries. In the following months, Greenland briefly considered joining the US as a protectorate, but reconsidered when the EU offered a full membership. This, along with the defection of several US island protectorates in the Atlantic, impelled the EU to rename itself the 'Greater European Union'.\par
In the aftermath of the Second Cold War, the GEU has always been on the forefront of political development. It was the only Western nation to second the Middle-Eastern Alliance's vote of no confidence on the old United Nations, after the UN's complete failure to act during the Chinese expansion and eventual civil war. The GEU also strongly supported the Alliance's efforts to create a new UN that provides fair representation to all the world's nations, with enough teeth to live up to the principles under which it was first created.\par
Today, the GEU is the strongest economical and political force in the world. However, its vast bureaucracy and large number of members -- members who don't always see eye-to-eye -- make it slow to manoeuvre in every way. Its military is large and powerful but poorly-integrated, with each individual army sticking to the language and traditions of their home country. Military cooperation is difficult to achieve and requires going through huge amounts of red tape. The GEU contributes a majority of UN troops, but they are only ever used as peacekepeers. Whether or not the GEU militaries have lost their 'edge' has been a subject of hot debate in Brussels for many years, and there appears to be no decision in sight.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\par
\b\fs22 The Middle-Eastern Alliance \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 The rise of the Middle-Eastern Alliance was a surprise to everyone, including the people involved. It was designed solely to weaken Western influence in the Middle-East. The principal designers and first members -- Iran, Syria, Jordan and Afghanistan -- never meant the Alliance to last more than a decade, by which time they expected it to fragment and disband under the weight of its own differences.\par
The Second Cold War changed everything. The People's Republic of China was no longer a nearby ally against the West; it became an expanding threat with an appetite, casting hungry eyes on Nepal, chunks of India, and possibly even the sovereign states on China's western border. Pakistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan rushed into the arms of the Alliance in order to guard themselves against invasion. The Arabian subcontinent joined the Alliance not a year later, seeking to expand their political pull with the West. Without even realising it, they had formed a power block covering nearly the entire Middle-East. Their position was simply too good to allow it to crumble.\par
The expanded Alliance, now recognised by the European Union, stepped onto the international stage with knife in hand. They had a stranglehold on most of the world's remaining oil supplies and the will to exploit it.\par
The Alliance's economic power grew as outside oil reserves dwindled. Pharmaceutical manufacturers packed up in droves and moved to the Middle-East, the only place left in the world where oil was cheap and plentiful. This, along with the many other applications of crude oil, allowed the Middle-East to survive the Russian 'nuclear revolution' and the subsequent worldwide migration to nuclear power. It continued its expansion with Egypt, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and disputed chunks of Africa around the Red Sea. The entire Red Sea region was quickly pacified when the Alliance moved in its military to assist the new African members.\par
Today, the spread of prosperity has turned the Middle-East away from dogma and towards secular law and gender equality. It is still ruled by individuals -- Sultans, Emirs, Maliks, Presidents and Generals -- but their personal power is kept in check by the rest of the Alliance, rulers who do not want their colleagues stepping out of line. Political dissent is tolerated due to pressure from the GEU and other nations, but even in 2084 few of the Alliance's member nations have a functioning democratic process.\par
The Alliance military is large, fast and mean. It is one of the most elite and well-equipped forces in the world, and it uses more permissive rules of engagement than either United America or the Asian Republic. Their clause for 'acceptable civilian casualties' has been the source of huge amounts of criticism from across the world, but the Alliance has stubbornly maintained this clause throughout the four decades it has been in effect.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\par
\b\fs22 New Africa \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 Born out of violence and strife, New Africa found its unification in separation. It languished onwards for three decades into the 21st century, as it had done for far too long, with its civil wars and ethnic purges and atrocities beyond measure. That is, until several central-African nations undertook a massive project in 2039 to break the notorious diamond cartels and seize their revenue for long-term national improvement.\par
It resulted in a military and economic bloodbath. The move was condemned by the UN, but even more toothless than ever before, it accomplished nothing. The league of nations was eventually joined by several others, tired of being pushed around by Western conglomerates, and after years of bitter fighting they were successful in taking down the cartels one by one. This left them with some of the largest, most advanced diamond and gold mines in the world; it made their combined territory the largest single supplier of natural diamonds in the world. It also gave them a new sense of what they could accomplish together. The core of New Africa was born.\par
All the African nations involved in the anti-cartel war, with the exception of territories loyal to the Commonwealth of Oceania and the Middle-Eastern Alliance, began to work much more closely together, taking cues from South-America in building a dependable road network to fuel trade and communication. It also allowed a much better distribution of food. Over the next thirty years, New Africa completely eliminated famine within its borders, which it changed completely to accomodate ethnicity and a desire for independence within its territories, and brought socialised public health-care to its people at near-ruinous cost. However, it also found new exports in the sustainable growth of tropical hardwood and exotic fruit. The new cooperation made price agreements across the continent possible for the first time; like the Revolutionary Countries, New Africa forced the rest of the world to pay fairly for all goods and services.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100 Today, New Africa is still the weakest of the great powers economically, but it is growing fast. It has a large, motivated standing army, but the troops are not well-equipped, armed mostly with former US antiques and even century-old Soviet equipment. They also have trouble getting to remote locations due to frequent equipment failures and the continent's difficult geography. Most of the time, the best the New Africans can do is spot landing UFOs with one of thousands of scouts and small patrols out in the country to combat poaching and smuggling.\par
\par
\b\fs22 Russia \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 Russia took decades to recover from the fall of the Soviet Union and the ravages of the Soviet system on the country's economy. It festered like an open wound for the first half of the 21st century, still trying to quash the constant rebellions in Chechnya, still trying to reform after 70 years of state domination, still trying to get back its lost position as a world superpower.\par
Things finally started getting better for Russia when then-prime minister Yevgeny Karamazov granted complete independence to Chechnya in 2047. While the newly official Chechen Republic imploded in a storm of violence about who exactly should rule, Russia turned away and set itself to fixing its own problems, leaving Chechnya to itself -- and to the new and improved UN, which immediately took an interest in trying to stop the bloodshed. Unfortunately that wouldn't happen for a long time, and even then Chechnya could only return to Russia's sphere of influence, though for the first time it could do so as a fully-recognised independent voice.\par
Economic salvation for Russia -- with oil supplies from the Middle-East dwindling -- began in drilling the country's own oil in Siberia, with new techniques and equipment able to survive the harsh winter conditions, and continued with the construction of a series of new nuclear power plants. Russia invested heavily in research to make the new plants smaller, safer and -- more importantly -- sustainable. This involved a switch from enriched uranium to thorium as the main nuclear fuel for all the new Russian plants, and required advanced designs based upon the 'energy amplifier', a new type of fission reactor first test-built near Rome from 2004 to 2011. Two of the new reactors even consumed plutonium from dismantled nuclear weapons and from the stored waste of older power plants.\par
Then, eight years after the Chechen independence, Russia's 'nuclear revolution' really came into its own with the invention of the depleted element postprocessor, which could convert 90% of an energy amplifier's waste into radiation-free elements in weeks instead of centuries. The Russians ended the age-old energy crisis almost overnight; nuclear fission became safe, relatively clean, and long-lasting. Global thorium supplies would see the world clear into the year 3000.\par
Today, many of the ex-Soviet republics have rejoined Russia, following the example of the other great nations, eager to take advantage of the power generation and nuclear technology that are now Russia's main exports. The nuclear revolution continues even today with the gradual development and commercialisation of fusion power. Though its economy is still troubled, the country is now in better shape than it has been for centuries -- whether under the khans, the czars or the Soviets. Its military is somewhat antiquated but highly-trained, well-disciplined and professional, and it does not lack for manpower.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\par
\b\fs22 The Commonwealth of Oceania \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0\fs20 The Commonwealth of Nations, a political organisation made up of most of the countries of the old British Empire, lost a great deal of power going into the Second Cold War. First, Pakistan cut its ties to the Commonwealth when joining the Middle-Eastern Alliance. Then, as the United States crashed and burned, Britain and Canada became more and more concerned with their own parts of the world and let their participation dwindle to nothing. By 2030, they were members in name only.\par
The growing power of China throughout the war caused a huge expansion in military budgets for India and Australia, budgets which their economies had trouble supporting. Then, in 2035, India became one more battlefield in the Chinese civil war. Veteran government troops easily defeated the Indian military in several short but bloody engagements and seized most of the country while the rebels pursued.\par
Australia pledged a full-scale military intervention along with several South-African Commonwealth members. After weeks of brutal fighting, the Australian divisions managed to link up with Chinese rebel forces and the surviving regiments of the Indian army, and together they nearly annihilated the governmental army before the surrender in 2036.\par
The cost was high. The conquered parts of India were a wasteland, the country had no government left after the nuking of New Delhi, and famines were already starting to grip the population. It began ceding worthless parts of land to other nations and gave independence to several small regions along its border. The remaining Commonwealth nations undertook the vast task of reconstructing India, though many abandoned the project and the Commonwealth in favour of the other growing superpowers.\par
The reconstruction of India eventually united the Commonwealth into one great nation, taking advantage of their geographic location around the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific to charge strategic tariffs for ships passing through their waters. Commonwealth shipping, on the other hand, was free from tariffs and quickly rose to dominance in the competitive market. Later, with the breaking of the diamond cartels in Africa, the Commonwealth seized several leaderless mines inside its borders and used them to their full. \par
\pard Today, the Commonwealth of Nations is better known as the 'Commonwealth of Oceania' or just 'Oceania'. Since its inception it has accepted several non-Commonwealth countries into its midst, notably Madagascar, Zimbabwe and Indonesia, extending its control over the Oceanian waters. While it still can't compete economically with the richer nations, it has carved out its own niche, and is quite happy to go on prospering in it.\par
\pard\sb100\sa100 Oceania's military consists mainly of a powerful navy. Its land army is minuscule compared to that of any nation except United America, and serves only in a defensive capacity, with average training and equipment. However, it can respond fairly quickly in emergency situations.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b\fs24 "PHALANX And The Mumbai Aftermath"\fs20\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\par
"Project PHALANX" was first conceived by the United States Department of Defense in 1955, after years of growing concern over increased numbers of UFO sightings all across the world. The possibility of an alien invasion plagued badly on the minds of politicians already unnerved by the nuclear power of the Soviet Union. The existence of hostile extraterrestrial life in the universe seemed a very remote possibility, even moreso that these hostiles might find Earth among all the vastness of space -- but could America afford to take that chance?\par
\par
The project's proponents spent two years building support among the highest levels of power. Finally, in 1957, PHALANX received its first funding allocation. A significant chunk of the year's 'black budget' went to the construction of an advanced underground complex in the Nevada desert somewhere in the territory of Nellis Air Force Base. The complex was named "PHALANX Pacific Operations Command", loaded with state-of-the-art equipment, and staffed with the best and brightest to hammer out how best to combat an extraterrestrial incursion into US soil.\par
\par
The project was a rousing success in its formative years, developing ground-breaking technologies and producing working prototypes of things the world had never seen before, all for a fraction of the costs that civilian contractors would run up. Due to its very nature, PHALANX was the subject of yearly budget battles, but its R&D successes always gave the project a reason to continue even for the most hardline practicalists.\par
\par
However, the world moved on while PHALANX kept preparing for something that never happened. The Vietnam war saw a tremendous upsurge in military spending, almost none of which was allocated to PHALANX or similar projects, who saw their own budgets slashed and burned in the face of war. Despite repeated requests for more funding, the Joint Chiefs dismissed the outlandish 1950s program as 'pie-in-the-sky' spending and let it continue only because of its research efforts. Most of the remaining funding went to keep old equipment serviced and the labs running, if only barely.\par
\par
PHALANX never quite recovered after the war. They would never again have the budgets they had in the '50s; the glory years were over. They supplied some new technology used in the Gulf War, and experienced brief uptick during the opening years of the 21st century due to soaring US military budgets, but after these brief spurts of creativity the project would again fade into obscurity.\par
\par
The Second Cold War drained away the last life left in the project. Its commanders struggled to keep it going without even the money to keep their aircraft in the sky, but even the invention of artificial spider silk couldn't save them from the United States' crashing economy. The country's slide into ruin necked every 'non-essential' military program in the country, one by one, and PHALANX was finally stricken from the budget in 2027. It was five months away from its 70th anniversary. The staff was dismissed, the base dismantled, the unique equipment mothballed and thrown into storage. The project was quickly forgotten.\par
\par
Until it was rediscovered on 9 March 2084 by an old man who remembered reading about it in a dusty file in his long-demolished office.\par
\par
The horror and enormity of the events in Mumbai shocked the world. The existence of intelligent alien life in the universe was no longer a matter of faith. Not only did it exist, it had made contact in the worst way. The massacres were too large and visible for Earth's governments to keep them secret. Video evidence of the smoking, blood-stained streets aired on television sets around the world. The aliens had left no other evidence of their visit; they diligently recovered their dead and collected every scrap of dropped technology before pulling out.\par
\par
Panic spread like wildfire in the wake of the Mumbai broadcasts, and things got worse as word reached the general public about the slaughter in Bonn, Johannesburg and Bangkok. The world knew it had been visited, and now it began to realise it was under attack.\par
\par
The quest for solutions was frantic. The United Nations remained in session continuously for over a week. Plans were drawn up and burnt down with lightning speed. The world was completely defenceless against an alien invasion, both militarily and psychologically. No one had prepared for this. It was one of the forgotten doomsday scenarios that sat crumbling to dust in the back closet of some strategic planning office, unread and unheeded. Now, however, the public demanded answers that no one knew, action that no one could provide.\par
\par
The UN could agree only on a few token gestures; at the order of the Security Council, NASA evacuated International Space Stations 1 and 2, as well as the permanent colony on the moon. The entire range of planned missions to Mars was stricken from the calendar. On all the matters that counted, the UN was deadlocked. Some nations wanted to build massive orbital defences while others insisted they should be permitted to use nuclear missiles for UFO interception. Still others had even more outlandish projects to push. The situation grew worse as the days wore on, until one aging diplomat remembered the PHALANX project.\par
\par
With full access to the old US files, the UN was shocked to find plans, designs, equipment and training manuals; a fully-detailed response to an invasion scenario. They immediately decided to revive PHALANX and equip it to defend Earth from the alien threat. However, everyone who was once a part of PHALANX was either dead or dying. They were going to need a new staff.\par
\par
By unanimous vote, it was decided to keep the project as secret as possible, known only to the highest-ranking politicians and military commanders in the world. The public was comforted with smokescreens and sweet lies while a hand-picked team of operatives from all over the world struggled to resurrect PHALANX and whip it back into fighting trim. Old equipment was tracked down and recovered from gutted warehouses, crumbling manuals were dusted off, and stockpiles of weapons were reassembled for use. With the secret backing of all eight great powers, the project had funding, support and the men it needed to go to war.\par
\par
All it lacked was a leader.\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 MESSAGES\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\b\fs24 Aircraft Messages\b0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. (Air) Subakh al-Kuhar, Air Wing, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Aircraft Landed -- \{aircraft\}\par
\par
Commander, \{aircraft\} has landed at \{base\}. It is now being \{refuelled/refuelled and rearmed\}.\par
\par
-- COMAIR\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. (Air) Subakh al-Kuhar, Air Wing, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Aircraft Bingo Fuel -- \{aircraft\}\par
\par
Commander, \{aircraft\} has run out of flight time. It has only enough fuel left to return to \{base\}. Mission has been aborted.\par
\par
-- COMAIR\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. (Air) Subakh al-Kuhar, Air Wing, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Aircraft Ready -- \{aircraft\}\par
\par
Commander, \{aircraft\} has been \{refuelled/refuelled and rearmed/repaired, refuelled and rearmed\} and is ready for action.\par
\par
-- COMAIR\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. (Air) Subakh al-Kuhar, Air Wing, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Aircraft Lost Target -- \{aircraft\}\par
\par
Commander, \{aircraft\} has lost radar tracking of \{target\} and is unable to reacquire. Please provide further orders.\par
\par
-- COMAIR\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. (Air) Subakh al-Kuhar, Air Wing, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab New Aircraft Arrived -- \{base\}\par
\par
Commander, \{aircraft\} has arrived at \{base\} and has cleared its diagnostics and pre-flight tests. It is ready to launch at your say-so.\par
\par
-- COMAIR\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 Alien Activity Messages\b0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Alien Activity Reported -- \{location\}\par
\par
Good morning, Sir.\par
\par
We have a confirmed sighting of live aliens in \{location\}. Civilians are at risk; I recommend we send troops over there right away.\par
\par
With kind regards,\par
Col. Falkland\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Human Attack Reported -- \{location\}\par
\par
Good morning, Sir.\par
\par
We've received reports of an attack in progress in the vicinity of \{location\} by humans equipped with alien weapons. Their objective is currently unclear, but shots have been fired. We should respond in force as soon as we can.\par
\par
With kind regards,\par
Col. Falkland\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Response Too Late -- \{location\}\par
\par
Good morning, Sir.\par
\par
I thought I'd let you know, the enemy force at \{location\} seems to have successfully completed its mission due to our failure to respond. All hostiles have disappeared into the countryside. \{number\} civilians died in the incident, and our reputation has suffered as a result. \par
\par
\{optional special consequences?\}\par
\par
With kind regards,\par
Col. Falkland\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab XO Abel S. Howard, Command & Control, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab New Radar Contact -- \{target\}\par
\par
Sir, radar is tracking an unidentified target on our screens. This \{target\} has no scheduled flight plan and is not responding to hails. We should launch an intercept immediately.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab XO Abel S. Howard, Command & Control, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Alien Base Dicovered -- \{target\}\par
\par
Sir, our operatives have discovered the location of a large alien installation on Earth. This installation represents a serious threat to PHALANX and to humanity at large, we must take it out ASAP.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 Production Messages\b0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Production Finished -- \{item\}\par
\par
The engineering team has completed production of \{item\} at \{location\}. All equipment is tested and ready for use.\par
\par
--Cdr. Navarre\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Not Enough Resources -- \{item\}\par
\par
There aren't enough materials to continue production of \{item\} at \{location\}. The production has been suspended.\par
\par
--Cdr. Navarre\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Not Enough Money -- \{item\}\par
\par
We're too low on funds to continue production of \{item\} at \{location\}. The production has been suspended.\par
\par
--Cdr. Navarre\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 Base Messages\b0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab XO Abel S. Howard, Command & Control, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab New Base Ready -- \{base\}\par
\par
Ownership of our new base has been transferred and the premises have been secured. \{base\} is now ready for construction.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab XO Abel S. Howard, Command & Control, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Construction Finished -- \{facility\}\par
\par
A new \{facility\} has been completed and is now operational in \{base\}.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab XO Abel S. Howard, Command & Control, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Equipment Order Received -- \{base\}\par
\par
The new equipment we ordered has arrived at \{base\}. It's been tested and is ready for use.\par
\par
\par
\b\par
TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab XO Abel S. Howard, Command & Control, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab\{date\}\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Equipment Transfer Received -- \{base\}\par
\par
The equipment you earmarked for transfer has arrived at \{base\}.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 DECORATIONS\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\par
\i Combat Infantryman's Badge\i0\par
(Requirements: Participated in 1 firefight)\par
\par
This troop has stood firm in the face of the enemy, fired his weapon, and been fired upon.\par
\par
\par
\i Croix de Guerre\i0  -- replaces Combat Infantryman's Badge\par
(Requirements: Killing 3 or more enemies within 5 turns, whilst holding Combat Infantryman's Badge)\par
\par
This troop's acts of heroism in combat with the enemy have earned one of the UN's oldest and most prestigious awards for valour.\par
\par
\par
\i Combat Injury Ribbon\i0\par
(Requirements: Received 1 fatal wound)\par
\par
This troop has taken an honourable wound in the line of duty.\par
\par
\par
\i Combat Injury Ribbon W. Cluster\i0\par
(Requirements: Received 3 or more fatal wounds over career)\par
\par
This troop earned several honourable wounds in the line of duty and still lives to tell the tale.\par
\par
\par
\i Combat Lifesaver's Cross\i0\par
(Requirements: Stabilised 3 or more fatally-wounded friendlies in 1 mission)\par
\par
This troop has performed heroically as a medic in the field of combat.\par
\par
\par
\i Royal Red Cross\i0  -- replaces Combat Lifesaver's Cross\par
(Requirements: Further amazing feats, whilst holding Combat Lifesaver's Cross)\par
\par
For truly exceptional service in saving lives under fire, at great risk to the self, this troop has received the UN's highest award for military medicine.\par
\par
\par
\i Expert Aviator Badge\i0\par
(Requirements: Shooting down 3 UFOs in career)\par
\par
This pilot has proven their skills as a flyer and demonstrated unflinching resolve in shooting down the enemy.\par
\par
\par
\i Distinguished Flying Cross\i0\par
(Requirements: Shooting down 2 or more UFOs in a single flight, whilst holding Expert Aviator Badge)\par
\par
For courage and devotion to duty in active operations against the enemy, this pilot has received the UN's highest award for military aviation.\par
\par
\par
\par
\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 SKILLS\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
Poor\par
Mediocre\par
Competent\par
Good\par
Very Good\par
Proficient\par
Highly Proficient\par
Excellent\par
Outstanding\par
Superhuman\par
\par
\par
\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 TIMELINE\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 1,000,000 years ago\par
On a remote planet in our galaxy, Antares, a viral life-form is engineered in a bio-weapons lab of one of the largest nations on the planet. This virus has a unique property: it possesses a psionically distributed intelligence, each virion making up a tiny part of a larger brain, and it is capable of completely controlling the body of whatever lifeform it infects. The politicians of this nation begin using the virus to subvert Antareans of opposite viewpoints. They are able to control the infection due to the virus's initially limited intelligence, possessing a device that allows them to completely control the host through the virus. As the Antareans begin reverting to the virus more and more for political expediency, it starts to grow in power and intellect.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 999,999 years ago\par
The virus gains enough intelligence to become self-aware, developing a will of its own as well as a powerful need to grow and survive. It starts to think of ways to shake its masters' control. In the shadows, it begins using its hosts to subvert innocent Antareans. It is cloak-and-dagger work; the virus spreads by directly injecting them with infected blood. Meanwhile, the Antarean state grows more and more totalitarian, absorbing other nations into itself with the help of XVI -- which is now using them to gain more hosts.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 999,997 years ago\par
The virus manages to infect the first of its masters. With his knowledge and direct access to the other rulers, the rest of the masters quickly suffer the same fate. In two years' time, the virus takes possession of 98% of the planet's population. Conflicts cease and technological progress increases exponentially as the hive mind assumes dominance over the planet.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 998,000 years ago\par
The virus's homeworld has become overpopulated to the point where the planet's resources cannot sustain the growing number of hosts anymore. Yet the hive mind must keep growing; this is its most basic instinct. It sees only one way out: up.\par
\par
Strip-mining the planet's remaining resources, the virus starts to build a massive starship in orbit around the alien homeworld, on which to transport its hosts to other sources of metal and energy in faraway star systems. It has a reason: The ark must be big enough to house the entire planetary population of hosts. The viral mind cannot divide itself. It would be like a human slicing parts out of his own brain. Even if the virus overcame its instincts against self-mutilation, the body would survive, but at what cost and to what benefit? The separate viral minds could end up changing through the ages, perhaps even grow more powerful than the original whilst outside monitoring range, and would undoubtedly come into conflict with the original over the same resources. The original is well aware of this and has no intention to be anything but number one.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 997,980 years ago\par
The ark is complete and sets out at sublight speeds to the next star system, intent on finding new resources to maintain the host population and producing new hosts so that the hive mind may keep growing.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 860,000 years ago\par
Just like on Antares, population growth is now straining the ark's resources. The travel time between star systems is taking too long; shortfalls and famines loom on the horizon. The hive mind sets itself to finding a solution. It eventually invents the wormhole FTL drive. The ark can now travel to new resource centres in weeks instead of centuries; a new fleet of scout UFOs is sent all over the galaxy to find hot spots.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 859,500 years ago\par
For the first time in its long trek, the virus finds another inhabited planet, bearing an intelligent species -- Ortnoks -- in its Dark Ages. The virus quickly sees the potential for acquiring millions of new hosts, lots of resources, and a workforce that requires no special equipment to breathe in the atmosphere.\par
\par
After mapping the Ortnok genome, the virus spreads across the population in a matter of weeks, and strip-mines the planet down to the crust in order to maintain itself. When it resumes its nomadic trek, it takes the Ortnok hosts with it, leaving only a barren, lifeless shell.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Roughly 700,000 years ago\par
The virus develops a powerful psionic projector, an offshoot of the wormhole FTL technology, allowing itself to maintain its hive mind over colonies several lightyears away. Unfortunately, the hard limits on the projectors' range restricts the virus to merely ravaging several systems at a time.\par
\par
\par
\par
- Between 700,000 years ago and present day\par
The alien ark has grown to unimaginable proportions. In its endless craving for hosts and resources, it has stripped virtually every resource-rich planet and asteroid in the galaxy. It leaves only destruction and despoilment in its wake.\par
Somewhere along the way, the hive mind realizes it has consumed all that it can in this galaxy. It is faced with the same old dilemma; find a new source, or face its own lobotomy. This time it decides to transport itself to another galaxy. In order to do this, it needs to tear a vast wormhole in spacetime to get to the destination galaxy.\par
\par
\par
\par
- December 12th, 2083\par
The intergalactic wormhole device is nearly finished, mere months away from completion, and the hive mind is getting ready to take the leap into richer pastures. However, the last handful of recon patrols bring back news of a hitherto unreconnoitered system which -- surprisingly -- contains an inhabited planet. The hive mind, still eager to grow, decides to annex this planet before moving on. Earth.\par
\par
\par
\par
- May 3d, 2084\par
Initial attack on Mumbai.\par
\par
The aliens' objective is to harvest humans for study, in order to decipher our genome and with that information adapt the virus to be able to infect humans. To this end they perform gruesome experiments on dead and live humans and use some nasty equipment in the field, such as the Bloodspider. The kerrblade is the alien harvesters' primary autopsy tool.\par
\par
\par
\par
=====Key events after the start of the game=====\par
(Exact dates of these events depend on the player and difficulty setting. The chronological order is always the same.)\par
\par
- PHALANX scientists realize that the aliens are controlled by a single mind.\par
- The virus (dubbed XVI by PHALANX researchers) starts infecting the population of earth. In the background, a biological war breaks out; vaccines versus mutated XVI strains.\par
- PHALANX scientists discover the true nature of the alien mind.\par
- Bases are discovered to serve as hive mind nodes. Assaulting bases becomes a priority for PHALANX for a while.\par
- The alien mind begins shifting its focus from infection and subversion to retaliation and destruction, attempting to keep PHALANX from becoming a threat to its goals on Earth. UFOs start performing air raids on population centres to force PHALANX responses and attack suspected PHALANX installations.\par
- PHALANX scientists reverse-engineer the alien FTL technology. Using this technology, PHALANX operatives visit distant worlds, long since raped by XVI. This leads to the discovery of the bulk of the backstory.\par
- Using alien FTL technology, the location of the mothership is discovered.\par
- Distressed by the PHALANX FTL probe, the hive mind further ramps up its military and infection efforts on Earth, committing more resources to the fight. XVI spread increases rapidly.\par
- A failed assault on the alien mothership reveals a powerful gravitic shield surrounding it.\par
- PHALANX scientists discover the alien's wormhole scheme (how?).\par
- Destruction of one of the mothership's shield generators by means of an FTL tactical weapon. This allows a PHALANX FTL dropship to dock.\par
- Destruction of the mothership by triggering the wormhole device inside the shield.\par
\b\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\f0\fs24 EQUIPMENT \lang1033\f1\fs20\par
\pard\par
\par
\b0 Technical Specifications: AR-80 Assault Rifle\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\par
The French LeBlanc FAA-191 (Fusil Assaut Automatique) provides the most advantageous mix of range, penetration against alien armour, and magazine size in the assault rifle class. It is a bullpup design, meaning the magazine and action of the weapon are located behind the grip to reduce overall weapon length. The 191 fires a 30-round box magazine of 4.7mm caseless ammunition, tungsten-cored steel penetrators with impressive armour-piercing capability over short and medium ranges. The round does not perform well at long range, but then assault rifles aren't meant for long-range firefights.\par
\par
Though the design is far from new, first prototyped in 2057, no other rifle has fully surpassed the 191. It is accurate and quick to reload. Its rugged construction makes it dependable in combat and unlikely to break or jam. It is resistant to heat, cold, dust and humidity all at once. Ammunition and replacement parts are widely available due to the design's maturity and relative popularity among Earth's armed forces. This is a rifle you can entrust your life to.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this rifle the classification AR-80.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
This should be our go-to weapon for medium-range engagements. It can lay down an impressive amount of fire and is deadly out to far longer ranges than any pistol or SMG.\par
\par
However, no one should entertain the illusion that the assault rifle is the end-all be-all of our arsenal. A balance of weapons is required for us to be able to deal with different situations; while the assault rifle remains a good weapon at close range, it can be slow to manoeuvre in tight spaces and is eclipsed by both submachine guns and shotguns at these ranges, weapons which provide a far greater point-blank punch. Any sweep of an urban building should be led by close-range weapons, while rifle-equipped soldiers either secure the perimeter or form a second assault wave to support the others.\par
\par
If our rifle-equipped troops are caught beyond effective weapon range, they should make an advance from cover to cover in order to effectively bring their weapons to bear. Snipers should provide covering fire for the advancing teams or attempt to take out the enemy at range.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
While the AR-80 is a fine rifle in all respects, it was not designed to fight an alien invasion force. We should develop our own purpose-built weapons as soon as it becomes feasible to do so.\par
\b\par
\par
\par
\b0 Technical Specifications: Assault Rifle Magazine\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This magazine contains 30 rounds of 4.7x33mm caseless ammunition, armour-piercing mod. It is of a classic curved box design with the rounds stacked in a dual-column arrangement. The rounds themselves are tungsten-cored steel penetrators, encased in their own propellant rather than heavy brass casings. They perform well against a variety of enemies at short and medium ranges.\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into an AR-80 Assault Rifle.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with assault rifles should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\b\par
\par
\par
\b0 Technical Specifications: S-1 Sniper Rifle\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
Originally an anti-materiel rifle, the Canada-built Forrester LRWS (Long Range Weapon System) has since been adopted by many countries as their principal sniper rifle. It is one of the bare handful of sniper rifles developed after 2040 that do not feature a bullpup configuration ('bullpup' \f1 meaning the magazine and action of the weapon are located behind the grip to reduce overall weapon length)\f0 . It fires the massive 20mm HMG (Heavy Machine Gun) cartridge, fed by 5-round magazines which can weigh as much as one kilogramme apiece. The piston-retarded floating breech is equipped with an intricate gas dispersal system which decreases felt recoil to the level of an ordinary hunting rifle. This allows quick repeated shots on semi-automatic without any loss of accuracy.\par
\par
The greatest advantages of the LRWS over other modern sniper rifles are its incredibly short barrel and light weight, the only rifle in its size class that can fire the 20mm HMG round. This is made possible by a uniquely-reinforced breech and barrel made almost entirely of tungsten and titanium alloys, able to withstand the force of the round's super-high-velocity powder. Due to its short barrel, designed for tactical urban situations, the LRWS is only effective out to approximately 1 kilometre -- barely a third of the range of a standard anti-materiel rifle -- but we estimate that PHALANX should never face a situation where this might become a problem. Its reduced accuracy is amended by a highly-advanced scope that will calculate and display intelligent bullet trajectories wherever the rifle is pointing.\par
\par
The integral 'smart' bipod features a pneumatic suspension system that keeps the barrel perfectly horizontal to allow accurate fire even on broken ground. The buttstock and grip automatically mould themselves to fit any shooter. Most importantly, this rifle has racked up more alien kills in Mumbai than any other weapon deployed in the fighting.\par
\par
At half the weight of other sniper rifles and twice the manoeuvrability, the LWRS offers the power and flexibility that our agents require. This weapon will not disappoint.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this rifle the classification S-1.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Soldiers equipped with the S-1should keep their distance, fire from cover, and try to use aimed shots whenever possible. This is not an automatic weapon; a missed shot wastes time, ammunition and possibly life. \par
\par
All our snipers should carry at least one backup sidearm such as the P-12 or the CRC-8 SMG, or a combat knife at the very least. Should aliens threaten a sniper at close range, he should immediately draw his sidearm. Under no circumstances should he try to use an S-1 to fend off attackers at close range. The S-1 is too slow-firing to stop an advancing alien and will quickly deplete its magazine if this is attempted. If the soldier tries to shoot his magazine dry before drawing his sidearm, it will be too late.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
Along with high-explosive rockets and grenades, this is one of the few standard-issue human weapons that are fully effective against robotic aliens.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: Sniper Rifle Magazine\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This magazine contains 5 rounds of 20x140mm HMG (Heavy Machine Gun) ammunition. It is a convential single-column box design, and can be extremely heavy due to the weight of the rounds inside. One magazine can weigh up to 1 kilogramme depending on the type of ammo used. The rounds in this magazine are high-quality match grade ammunition meant for heavy sniper rifles; they are more accurate and expensive than ordinary HMG rounds.\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into an S-1 Sniper Rifle.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with sniper rifles should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: P-12 Pistol\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
With the return of armour to the battlefield, starting with steel helmets in World War 1 and fragmentation vests in Vietnam, pistols have had a harder and harder time keeping up. Due to their far lower muzzle velocity compared to longer-barreled and/or fully automatic weapons, they've had increasing trouble penetrating the new, ever-higher standards of human armour -- much less advanced alien composites. The very concept of the pistol in military use came under fire at one point in the 21st century, and was saved only by the advent of super-high-velocity powder.\par
\par
Chief among the new generation of super-pistols is the Dolvich DV762 from Russia. It follows the design philosophy of its home country; rugged, reliable power without frills. Its design is extremely basic, and though the materials used in its construction are far stronger to cope with the new powder, the DV762's internals are no more advanced than any pistol of the late 20th century.\par
\par
The DV762 does not compromise. It isn't a multi-function firearm. It's designed for only one thing: to punch through armour and kill the person inside. In order to do this, the DV fires the ancient 7.62mm Tokarev pistol round, either on semi-automatic or three-round burst mode, from a 12-round detachable box magazine. The Tokarev round is known for its excellent penetration, and it has been significantly upgraded on its return to military service. This pistol can shoot clean through the side of a modern ballistic helmet at ranges of up to 10 metres -- and then out the other side.\par
\par
Unfortunately, in order to achieve penetration, the DV sacrifices stopping power. The 7.62mm round makes a very clean hole in the enemy, which is the problem; it's very reluctant to fragment or tumble, requiring a direct hit on a vital organ or major artery to incapacitate or kill an enemy.\par
\par
For the purposes of the Excalibur Program, we concluded that a guaranteed minor hit is better than one that may simply bounce off an alien's armour, especially as we have yet to gain a clear picture of how nasty alien armour can get. We need sidearms that we know will be effective in the crunch, and the DV762 is the best of them.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this pistol the classification P-12.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The P-12 is primarily a backup weapon. It is a significant step up from the combat knife as a weapon of last resort, and it lets a soldier respond to new close-range threats if the primary weapon is rendered ineffective at such ranges or has run out of ammo.\par
\par
Ambidextrous soldiers may even consider using two pistols at the same time, though this will negatively impact accuracy and reduce the soldier's already minimal effective range.\par
\par
A single P-12 should rarely be considered as a primary weapon, as it is outclassed in this role by nearly every other weapon in our arsenal. Its advantages are the advantages of a sidearm -- small size and weight. Still, it may find a use as a primary weapon with field medics and technicians who do not have room for larger weapons.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
Despite good penetration against organics, this weapon performs very poorly against robotic targets.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: 7.62mm Pistol Magazine\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This magazine contains 12 rounds of 7.62x25mm TT (Tokarev) pistol ammunition. It is a convential single-column box design. Though their design is ancient, the bullets in this magazine are brand-new and ready for service. The Tokarev round is an excellent penetrator, able to punch through heavy armour at close range. However, it is also\f0  reluctant to fragment or tumble, requiring a direct hit on a vital organ or major artery to incapacitate or kill an enemy. Combined with super-high-velocity powder, these rounds also kick like a mule in recoil.\f1\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into a P-12 Pistol.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with pistols should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: MP-699 Machine Pistol\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
With the return of armour to the battlefield, starting with steel helmets in World War 1 and fragmentation vests in Vietnam, pistols have had a harder and harder time keeping up. Due to their far lower muzzle velocity compared to longer-barreled and/or fully automatic weapons, they've had increasing trouble penetrating the new, ever-higher standards of human armour -- much less advanced alien composites. The very concept of the pistol in military use came under fire at one point in the 21st century, and was saved only by the advent of super-high-velocity powder.\par
\par
The major drawback of super-high-velocity powder is that it cannot be used in fully-automatic weapons, since no firearms action on this Earth can survive that much violence for long without breaking. The British APMP pistol ignores these concerns by using more ordinary smokeless powder and a longer, almost SMG-length barrel to achieve higher velocities and greater kinetic power. It is a true machine pistol, fully automatic and capable of firing 600 rounds per minute from its surprisingly slim-lined 30-round detachable box magazine. It has no semi-automatic capability, only full-auto and 3-round burst fire.\par
\par
The APMP fires the specially-developed 4.2x24mm round that goes through kevlar like it wasn't there. Once inside a human body this tiny round tumbles like a madman and creates huge wound cavities. It has a deal of trouble penetrating modern body armour, but this is offset by the APMP's ability to deliver repeated hits from its large magazine, all in a pistol-sized package. Unfortunately, the APMP can be a little unwieldy due to its size. Accuracy during burst and fully-automatic fire suffers as a result.\par
\par
Whenever we need an automatic weapon no larger than our own P-12, this is the weapon that fills the gap.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this machine pistol the classification MP-699.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The MP-699 is primarily a backup weapon. It is a significant step up from the combat knife as a weapon of last resort, and it lets a soldier respond to new close-range threats if the primary weapon is rendered ineffective at such ranges or has run out of ammo. It is a good alternative for soldiers who have trouble hitting anything with the P-12, but the MP-699 is low-powered in comparison with the P-12. Furthermore, its magazines are large enough to preclude hanging them from a soldier's belt and far fewer of them can be carried conveniently.\par
\par
Ambidextrous soldiers may consider using two pistols at the same time, though this will negatively impact accuracy and reduce the soldier's already minimal effective range.\par
\par
A single MP-699 should rarely be considered as a primary weapon, as it is outclassed in this role by nearly every other weapon in our arsenal. Its advantages are the advantages of a sidearm -- small size and weight. Still, it may find a use as a primary weapon with field medics and technicians who do not have room for larger weapons.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: 4.2mm MP Magazine\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This magazine contains 30 rounds of 4.2x24mm pistol ammunition. It is a double-column box design. The rounds are very small and have decent penetration, especially when causing several impacts close to each other\f0 , and they cause a great deal of tissue damage once they've penetrated skin. They're designed to have very little recoil, but this doesn't help the MP-699's accuracy very much.\f1\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into an MP-699 Machine Pistol.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with machine pistols should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: CRC-8 SMG\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons for our Close Range Combat package.\par
\par
Designed and manufactured in mainland China, the Ohm 55 SMG is one of the most frightening weapons to come out of the Second Cold War. It was first prototyped in 2035 by scientists working for the Communist Chinese government. Production models were only trickling into government units by the end of the war, but the rebel and Commonwealth troops quickly learned to respect the Ohm's ferocity.\par
\par
Its rate of fire at full auto exceeds 1200 rounds per minute. It can chew through a 50-round magazine in three seconds. It fires an upgraded version of the Belgian 5.7mm armour-piercing round, a steel penetrator with aluminium core, which can tear kevlar like paper and tumbles brutally through flesh and bone. Even modern ballistic fibre cannot stop this round at anything closer than 12 metres. The Ohm 55 has dominated the field of SMGs for the past 50 years and will continue to do so for at least the next decade.\par
\par
The Ohm is highly manoeuvrable with a short barrel and sleek lines, but can suffer from excessive muzzle climb on full auto due to the sheer weight of lead the weapon puts out. Autofire also tends to empty the magazine before the shooter even realises he's holding down the trigger. Still, after nearly 50 years in service around the world, this remains the Ohm 55's only known design flaw.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this submachine gun the classification CRC-8.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The CRC-8 is intended for point-blank urban firefights. It will perform very well in this role, but don't expect it to hit the broad side of a barn out to medium range. It can also function as a high-powered sidearm, but may be too bulky for most soldiers to use in this manner.\par
\par
\f0 While the CRC-8 does suffer excessive muzzle climb on full auto, throwing off the aim of even experienced users, it is much more docile in its standard burst mode. Full auto should rarely be considered outside of panic situations.\par
\f1\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\b\par
\par
\b0 Technical Specifications: SMG Magazine\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This large magazine contains 50 rounds of 5.7x28mm ammunition. It features a complicated triple-column arrangement, its rounds packed into the magazine in three large stacks. \f0 The round itself shreds armour at close range and produces horrific wounds. It typically generates low recoil, but the round's gentle characteristics are overwhelmed by the CRC-8's incredible rate of fire on full auto.\f1\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into a CRC-8 SMG.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with SMGs should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. Two or more are strongly recommended if the SMG is used as a primary weapon, since it can consume vast amounts of ammunition. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: HPML Rocket Launcher\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
The South-African MPMDS (Multi-Purpose Missile Delivery System) has a classic, almost surgically clean name that completely belies its purpose. It is the heaviest infantry missile launcher on the market, able to fire anti-tank shells as easily as high-explosive rockets that turn infantry into hamburger. Originally intended as light field artillery, this weapon is fairly new; its only combat experience has been in Mumbai in the hands of Commonwealth troops. It was one of the handful of weapons that eventually turned the tide in the fighting -- and there is a good reason why.\par
\par
Alien UFOs on the ground emit fantastic amounts of jamming and other EW (Electronic Warfare) activity. In fact, they emit so much of it that ordinary 'smart' missiles are rendered completely ineffective. If one type of alien EW doesn't fool the missile's relatively stupid electronic brain, another will. No amount of tinkering by Earth's military engineers has been able to fix the situation. The MPMDS, however, will remain effective against the alien invaders -- one of the few human missile launchers that can -- because its rockets carry no onboard guidance.\par
\par
The rockets are 120mm monsters the size of artillery shells. They are fired out of a smoothbore barrel, fin-stabilised in flight, and have a maximum effective range of 70 metres. Surprisingly they are made up of only three parts: a rocket booster, a warhead and an impact trigger. This simplicity allows them to remain effective and reliable in the most hazardous situations. Though the rockets are not very accurate, they will devastate anything in their path, even aliens. It takes only one good hit from an MPMDS rocket to send the enemy flying.\par
\par
Standard ammunition for this launcher includes: HE (High-Explosive) rockets, AA (Anti-Armour) rockets, and IC (Incendiary) rockets. New types of MPMDS ammo were being researched by Commonwealth manufacturers before the start of the war. We have all their data on file and could use it to create revolutionary new rocket types.\par
\par
Along with the HPGL Grenade Launcher, this weapon will provide our troops the artillery support they need to survive and win through.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this rocket launcher the classification HPML.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 The HPML is best used in a support role, providing covering fire for our assault troops with high-explosive and/or incendiary rockets. However, care should be taken that friendly fire incidents do not occur, as this could have disastrous effects in a combat mission.\par
\par
Friendly troops should be kept away from the rear of the launcher during firing; the hot exhaust gases are extremely dangerous to nearby humans. The HPML should not be fired at targets less than 10 metres from the shooter; violating this guideline could result in serious injury or death to the shooter and other members of the team. If a target is closer than 10 metres, any shooter should immediately resort to his sidearm or a combat knife. Even at 10-15 metres distant, the shooter could still suffer serious injuries from an HE explosion.\par
\f1\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
Along with sniper rifles and grenades, this is one of the few standard-issue human weapons that are fully effective against robotic aliens.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: HE Rocket\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a 120mm solid-fuel rocket fitted with a High-Explosive warhead\f0 . It is fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's barrel. The fuel is highly stable and resists concussion and heat, though it can cook off if exposed to high temperatures for a significant period of time. The warhead itself is completely inert unless armed by the impact trigger. Fire cannot set it off unless and until it's armed. Like C4 explosive, the unarmed compound inside the warhead will burn rather than explode when exposed to heat or open flame.\par
\par
Because it carries no onboard electronics, the rocket is impervious to EMP and electronic jamming. All high-tech aiming is done at the launcher. Therefore a properly-aimed rocket will arrive at its target regardless of anything that might happen during flight.\f1\par
\par
The rocket is meant to be loaded into an HPML Rocket Launcher.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with rocket launchers should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. Two or more are strongly recommended. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without sufficient ammunition.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: IC Rocket\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a 120mm solid-fuel rocket fitted with an incendiary warhead\f0 . It is fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's barrel. The fuel is highly stable and resists concussion and heat, though it can cook off if exposed to high temperatures for a significant period of time. The warhead itself can spill its contents if damaged, but the thermite mix will not ignite unless exposed to a very high-temperature flame.\par
\par
Incendiary rockets are area-denial weapons, covering a large stretch of ground with very hot flames that are almost impossible to extinguish. The compound itself is a modification of a mixture that has been in use since World War II; thermite, barium nitrate, sulphur and binding agent.\par
\par
Because it carries no onboard electronics, the rocket is impervious to EMP and electronic jamming. All high-tech aiming is done at the launcher. Therefore a properly-aimed rocket will arrive at its target regardless of anything that might happen during flight.\f1\par
\par
The rocket is meant to be loaded into an HPML Rocket Launcher.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with rocket launchers should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. Two or more are strongly recommended. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without sufficient ammunition.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: CRC-FL Flamethrower\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons for our Close Range Combat package.\par
\par
The Iranian ADA 22 flamethrower (nicknamed 'The Torch of God' by Alliance troops) is a marvel of modern engineering. Unlike the old flamethrowers of the 20th century, it requires no heavy pressure tanks to be carried on a soldier's back -- the ADA is one unit carried in the hands without any hoses or tubes. It simply slots a relatively small 200mm gas canister into the feed, fires its deadly ammunition, and then ejects the empty canister to make room for a reload. The system is ingenious and surprisingly reliable.\par
\par
The muzzle of the weapon is a powerful pump that squirts gas into the air, then sets off the gas-air mixture by way of four parallel spark igniters, one main unit and three backups. These igniters each emit as many as ten sparks per second in order to ignite the fuel before it disperses. The backups are very important in preventing an explosion due to the special fuel the ADA uses, a substance called Compound 90.\par
\par
Compound 90 is a new flamethrower fuel that, when injected into the air, creates a slow thermobaric reaction -- a fuel-air ignition rather than a fuel-air explosion -- that can roast living tissue in seconds. C90 inflicts horrific damage on organic targets; the heat generated exceeds 1700 degrees celsius, enough to melt titanium. However, due to its gaseous nature it leaves no burning residue (like napalm) on the target or in the surrounding area and disperses its heat much more quickly. This makes it significantly safer for urban use than napalm-derivative substances.\f1\par
\f0\par
The ADA 22's main drawbacks are its short range and its complex internals, which are difficult to repair. However, our experienced technicians should have no problem doing maintenance on this model.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this flamethrower the classification CRCL-FL.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 The CRC-FL is a close-range weapon; the operator needs to be fast in order to get into weapons range and unleash as much hell as possible. It is also a rather weighty weapon despite its relatively slim design. Strength as well as speed is required to wield it effectively.\par
\par
Flamethrowers also make great ambush weapons -- just make sure that none of our soldiers are in the line of fire.\par
\f1\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
This weapon should not be fired if there are civilians in or near the target zone.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: C90 Canister\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a 200mm canister of high-pressure flammable gas, locked and secured via three different systems to prevent accidents\f0 . Compound 90 is a new flamethrower fuel that, when injected into the air, creates a slow thermobaric reaction -- a fuel-air ignition rather than a fuel-air explosion -- that can roast living tissue in seconds. Its range is limited, as the C90 must be quickly ignited before it disperses, but it inflicts horrific damage on organic targets that few weapons can hope to match. The heat generated by C90 exceeds 1700 degrees celsius, enough to melt titanium, but due to its gaseous nature it leaves no burning residue (like napalm) and disperses heat much more quickly. This makes it significantly safer for urban use than napalm-derivative substances.\f1\par
\par
The canister is meant to be loaded into a CRC-FL Flamethrower.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with flamethrowers should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare canisters.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: CRC-212 Riot Shotgun\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons for our Close Range Combat package.\par
\par
Many great shotguns have come out of Italy over the past two centuries; the latest is the Rossi AAA, a semi-automatic combat shotgun developed for use by SWAT and anti-terrorist units. It features several ground-breaking technologies, but its most impressive feature is without a doubt the specially-developed 'Twist' barrel. The Twist is a new type of shotgun barrel that, with a sharp twist of the front handguard, can protrude or flatten the rifling inside the barrel. With this mechanism, the AAA can change its barrel from smoothbore to rifled and back in a tenth of a second. The barrel even adjusts its own diameter and choke to fit whatever type of shell is in the chamber. These two innovations allow the AAA to fire any kind of shotgun ammo at a moment's notice.\par
\par
The most commonly used military and SWAT ammunition is the 12mm centerfire flechette shell. Each shell contains 8 tiny flechettes -- solid steel needles with fins to stabilise their flight. This ammunition has superior accuracy compared to buckshot and performs excellently against armour. The flechettes are also prone to tumble after penetration, resulting in impressive wounding capability for such a small projectile. Their drawbacks are vulnerability to wind conditions and other deflecting factors. Other types of ammo are available to deal with these situations, however -- and the AAA can fire them all.\par
\par
In conclusion, the Rossi AAA is a highly versatile shotgun that is among the most effective close-range weapons available. It has a longer range than the CRC-FL Flamethrower and causes more damage than the CRC-8 SMG, providing a good compromise between speed, range and stopping power.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this shotgun the classification CRC-212.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 The CRC-212 performs very well at close quarters but quickly loses power as the range increases. Flechette shot tends to spread too far to be effective at range (though less so than ordinary buckshot), while rifled slugs suffer a pronounced projectile drop and are highly susceptible to wind conditions. Though the shotgun can shoot out to medium range, don't expect it to be very effective.\par
\par
Where this weapon will truly shine is in urban situations where the enemy has little cover to hide behind and can be engaged at close range. However, it can be too long to manoeuvre properly in tight spaces. The CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun may be preferable in these situations.\par
\par
\f1\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons for our Close Range Combat package.\par
\par
The 425 Blesk is a miniature shotgun hailing from the Czech Republic, a favourite of anti-terrorist and military reconnaissance units around the world. It is highly prized for its small frame, manoeuvrability, lightweight construction and reliable operation in combat. It is a significant competitor with the CRC-212 Riot Shotgun for the hearts and minds of shotgun-wielding soldiers.\par
\par
The Blesk sacrifices versatility and range for raw speed. It is a 12mm semi-automatic, able to shoot as fast as the operator can pull the trigger; there is no other shotgun in existence that responds as fast or as easily to new threats as the Blesk. In its standard configuration, the weapon features a folding foregrip in lieu of a buttstock in order to help the operator deal with the recoil of repeated firings.\par
\par
Unfortunately, the short barrel cuts badly into effective range, making it accurate only out to 10-20 metres, but this is usually enough for the tight urban situations in which PHALANX will be operating most often. It is also more than enough for a sidearm; the Blesk will fit into a sidearm holster with minor modifications and can be set to deploy the foregrip as the weapon is drawn, allowing immediate accurate fire as needed.\par
\par
The weapon chambered for the common 12mm shotgun calibre. It can fit 7 slugs in a handy pistol-style magazine contained in the grip, which makes it much faster to reload than the CRC-212 Riot Shotgun. However, it requires short shells that can fit into the grip magazine, such as our flechette shells. It cannot fit the full-length saboted slugs.\par
\par
There are only a handful of weapons that can compete with the Blesk for sheer short-range devastation. Its speed combined with flechette ammo makes for a deadly mix that can be relied upon to quickly dispatch any enemy stupid enough to get into range.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this shotgun the classification CRC-M9.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 All the restrictions that plague shotguns are magnified in the M9: short range, low ammo capacity, high recoil. This makes its function very clear. It is meant only for close-range firefights, where shotguns and sidearms shine. However, M9 operators should keep a close eye on their ammo level so that they don't run out in a tight spot.\par
\par
While not technically designed as a sidearm, the M9 performs well as one despite its relative bulk. It does more damage than the P-12 Pistol and is more accurate than the CRC-8 SMG. It is a good choice for snipers in particular.\par
\par
\f1\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: Flechette Shells\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This magazine contains 7 shells of flechette shot\f0 . Each 12mm shell contains 8 tiny flechettes -- solid steel needles with fins to stabilise their flight. This ammunition is military-only, banned for all civilian use due to the flechettes' excellent performance against armour. The flechettes are prone to tumble after penetration, resulting in nasty wounds that will either kill the target or send it running for cover.\par
\par
This short shell -- only 90mm long -- was designed for pistol-configuration shotguns like the CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun. However, the CRC-212 Riot Shotgun can fire it just as easily, with all the performance increases of a full-sized weapon.\f1\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into a CRC-212 Riot Shotgun or CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with shotguns should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: Saboted Slugs\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a magazine filled with 7 saboted shotgun slugs\f0 . These slugs are encased in hard plastic shells, 'sabots', which break away shortly after leaving the barrel. The sabots are fired from a rifled barrel and can travel at far higher velocities than ordinary slugs or shotshells. The slugs themselves are made of aluminium-cored steel; their power is not to be underestimated. When fired from a high-powered shotgun, these slugs can damage even armoured vehicles.\f1\par
\par
The magazine is meant to be loaded into a CRC-212 Riot Shotgun. It will not fit into the CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with shotguns should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare magazines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: HPGL Grenade Launcher\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
First released on the open market in 2047, the Brazilian RA6 has received numerous upgrades over the years that have kept it at  the top of its field. It is the most widely-used infantry grenade launcher in use today because of its excellent reliability and low weight. It has an impressive selection of compatible cartridges in the popular 25mm calibre.\par
\par
The RA6 carries up to 9 grenades individually loaded into a simple rotary cylinder. The cylinder is hinged at the front and breaks open to accept reloads. Reloading individual grenades can be a slow and agonising process, but this is often the best way of going about it; while 25mm speedloaders do exist and will work on the RA6, they are bulky and hard to carry around.\par
\par
The weapon has two fire modes; timed shot, which will detonate grenades at a set time after leaving the barrel, and airburst, which will detonate grenades in the air after they have travelled a certain distance. The RA6's maximum rate of fire is one round per second on semi-automatic, or it can rapidly cycle through its cylinder on burst mode, firing quick three-round bursts that can devastate whole areas. \par
\par
Standard ammunition for the RA6 is the 25mm HIT (High Impulse Thermobaric) grenade, which is a 'fuel-air munition' that uses atmospheric oxygen to generate an explosion instead of carrying along an oxidising agent. Thermobaric weapons produce a far more powerful explosive force than would be possible with conventional explosives of the same size. They rely on explosive energy, concussion and heat for their lethality rather than on fragmentation like most conventional explosives.\par
\par
This is one of the most versatile and effective weapons on our roster. While not as powerful as the rocket launcher, it is a reliable support weapon and infantry artillery piece.\par
\par
For PHALANX use, we have given this grenade launcher the classification HPGL.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 The HPGL is a tactician's dream come true. It has excellent damage and range, can hit several clustered targets with one blast, and can be used for special tasks such as area denial with incendiary grenades. It can be as effective in close situations as it is in large open spaces; however, different tactics are required.\par
\par
The airburst mode is preferable for use in open ground; it sacrifices some range by taking away the 'bounce' factor, but this also has its benefits. The bounce factor can seriously foul accuracy if the grenade lands on an uneven surface and can allow the enemy to run away or take cover before detonation. Airburst fire also allows the operator to place his grenades exactly where he wants them. Unless there is a catastrophic detonator failure, any airburst fired from the HPGL will go off at the intended spot with little chance for mechanical error.\par
\par
In close situations, timed grenades can be bounced off walls and around corners to reach dangerous or inconvenient places that other weapons have trouble getting a bead on. However, care should be taken that the operator doesn't fire shots that leave himself or any friendly troops inside the blast radius. This would make the operator very unpopular with what's left of the team. Due to the bounce factor on timed grenades, they can also be a severe hazard to nearby civilians. Use of the grenade launcher in situations where civilians might become victim to collateral damage is strongly discouraged.\par
\par
For close-range emergency work -- for example if the operator has no sidearm -- the launcher can also be loaded with special 25mm flechette shells similar to our shotgun shells. These have less damage potential than shotgun shells due to their lower muzzle velocity, but they can still be deadly in close quarters and, unlike explosive grenades, are not a risk to the operator at short ranges.\par
\par
\f1\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
Along with sniper rifles and rocket launchers, this is one of the few standard-issue human weapons that are fully effective against robotic aliens.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: 25mm HIT Grenades\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a box of 9 25mm HIT (High Impulse Thermobaric) grenades\f0 . They are fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's barrel. These grenades are 'fuel-air munitions' that use atmospheric oxygen to generate an explosion instead of carrying along an oxidising agent. Thermobaric weapons produce a far more powerful explosive force than would be possible with conventional explosives of the same size.\par
\par
\f1 These grenades are meant to be loaded into an HPGL Grenade Launcher.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with grenade launchers should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare grenades.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: 25mm IC Grenades\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a box of 9 25mm incendiary grenades\f0 . They are fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's barrel. These grenades are area-denial weapons, covering a large stretch of ground with very hot flames that are almost impossible to extinguish. The compound itself is a modification of a mixture that has been in use since World War II; thermite, barium nitrate, sulphur and binding agent. And thanks to modern miniaturisation technology, it will all fit into a handy, lightweight 25mm shell.\par
\par
\f1 These grenades are meant to be loaded into an HPGL Grenade Launcher.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with grenade launchers should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare grenades.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: 25mm Flechette Grenades\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This is a box of 9 25mm flechette grenades\f0 . They are fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's barrel. While still classified as grenades due to their calibre and delivery system, they have more in common with shotgun shells. Each grenade contains 24 solid steel needles packed into a sabot shell that breaks away immediately after leaving the muzzle. This creates a buckshot-like effect that can shred unarmoured or lightly-armoured enemies, but their lower muzzle velocity compared to shotgun shells makes them significantly less effective against heavy armour.\par
\par
\f1 These grenades are meant to be loaded into an HPGL Grenade Launcher.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All soldiers equipped with grenade launchers should carry at least one reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without spare grenades.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: Combat Knife\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
The combat knife is a solid, twenty-six centimetre bar of sharp steel that can be used for a number of everyday purposes. As a weapon, the combat knife's edge is reinforced with hard ceramics to give it extra armour-piercing power, and it is balanced for throwing should the need arise. It also has a bayonet ring for affixing the knife to the barrel of an old-style battle rifle.\par
\par
The inclusion of the combat knife in our arsenal was a subject of hot debate. Mumbai has taught us that even in the most favourable conditions, a knife is no match for the aliens' weaponry. If a knife-equipped soldier isn't shot down before he even reaches his target, he will almost certainly be gutted by one of the wicked alien blades that slice right through armour. Only in a handful of occasions have experienced knife-fighters been able to win out against alien opponents.\par
\par
Still, the combat knife has saved many a life over the years when firearms became inoperable or ran out of ammo. It has never been rendered obsolete by centuries of progressing technology; even the aliens use bladed weapons. When the chips are down, a knife in hand is still vastly better than a man's own fists.\par
\par
If a soldier makes it all the way to melee range, this weapon will serve him well.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 In combat, the knife is a weapon of last resort. If all other weapons are exhausted and the enemy is at the gates, then a good knife can save the day. However, even in such desperate situations it is risky business; using a knife on an enemy that hasn't been previously wounded or weakened is a fast way to end up in the morgue.\par
\f1\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\b\par
\b0\par
\par
\par
Technical Specifications: Flashbang\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\f0\par
The flashbang is a non-lethal grenade that produces a blinding flash and a deafening blast to temporarily confuse or disorient targets in the area of effect. The grenade body does not explode or fragment upon detonation. In fact, if the body remains undamaged, it can be easily refilled and used again.\par
\par
Humans affected by a flashbang suffer temporary deafness and impaired balance, as well as complete loss of eyesight for up to five seconds before the effect fades and vision returns to normal. This makes the flashbang an excellent weapon for distracting and temporarily disabling the enemy, especially when assaulting heavily-defended positions. From combat reports, we've concluded that flashbangs have much the same effect on aliens as they do on humans; alien targets are effectively blind and deaf for a short time after the flashbang is deployed, rendering them helpless. We can't say exactly how long this period is, and it will undoubtedly vary from alien to alien, but it's still long enough to make the difference in a firefight.\par
\par
Aside from being a useful tactical tool, the flashbang will allow our soldiers to get in close and personal without being cut to shreds by the alien weapons. It allows the commander to choose exactly which weapons are applied in a given situation whilst avoiding the collateral damage potential of a frag grenade. A very quick enemy can take precautions to negate flashbang effects simply by closing his eyes and plugging his ears, but he will have very little warning and in most cases will require special training to respond in time. From what we can tell the aliens have had no prior experience with this type of weapon and have no defensive doctrine against it. Even a prepared enemy will still be distracted by a flashbang and could be engaged by fast-action troops before being able to reclaim his weapon and take aim.\par
\par
The flashbang's strengths far outweigh its weaknesses. It has served with distinction in many wars before this one, and it will continue to do so until all its functions can be replaced somehow by a new system.\par
\par
\par
\ul\f1 Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 The flashbang does no physical damage to anyone caught in its area of effect, and for that reason alone this weapon should be used over frag grenades and other explosive ordnance during any mission where civilians are placed at risk.\par
\par
It is an indispensible weapon in any terrain that features large amounts of available cover. If aliens are lying in wait and charging around a corner might be suicide, the mere act of popping a flashbang down the corridor can significantly change the outcome of the ensuing firefight in favour of our troops. Its utility is not to be underestimated.\par
\f1\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
Naturally the flashbang is only effective against organic aliens with eyes and ears.\b\par
\b0\par
\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Technical Specifications: Fragmentation Grenade\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\par
The concept of the fragmentation grenade has changed little since it was first conceived, when Chinese soldiers packed gunpowder into ceramic or metal containers. It only solidified further after the end of the 20th century. Improvements in explosive technology and casing materials have made them a little faster and a little deadlier, but the mechanics are the same: An explosive substance at the heart of the grenade causes the casing (and possibly additional payload such as a layer of wire or white phosphorus coiled around the explosive) to fragment into shrapnel and fly in all directions at high speed, killing or wounding targets in the area of effect. The delayed fuse is ignited by first pulling the pin and then releasing the handle, usually released as the grenade is thrown. It will detonate after a period of several seconds.\par
\par
For PHALANX purposes, we\rquote ve selected the Australian HG15 as the best of the lot. This grenade is loaded with an extremely conventional charge of C8 solid chemical explosive, an inner layer of coiled wire, and an outer layer of thin plated steel. It's designed to maximise coverage by putting out more shrapnel than any other grenade on the market. The HG15's outer layer is smooth and unbroken, unlike the old 'pineapple' grenades of World War 2, to make it easier to roll across various surfaces. The C8 explosive at its core may be old in design, but it's both highly powerful and can be counted on to work right under harsh conditions. Reliability is an especially important attribute in any kind of hand-held bomb.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Though quite effective against enemy infantry, frag grenades are weapons of opportunity, not a replacement for firearms or portable artillery. Their range is highly limited and their casualty radius is small. However, if the situation calls for close-range indirect fire or something deadly thrown around a corner, the frag grenade is just the thing.\par
\par
Care should be taken that no friendlies (especially civilians) are caught in the area of effect. In such situations the use of lethal grenades is strongly discouraged; flashbangs should be given preference.\par
\par
It's recommended that all soldiers carrying non-heavy weapons should be equipped with at least one grenade of some variety -- be it a frag grenade, flashbang, incendiary grenade or other -- in case the need should arise. Two or more are strongly recommended.\par
\ul\par
\par
Addenda\par
\ulnone\par
\pard None.\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Technical Specifications: Incendiary Grenade\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\par
Incendiary grenades are area-denial weapons, covering a large stretch of ground with very hot flames that are almost impossible to extinguish. Once thrown, the body of the grenade explodes, spreading the incendiary compound over the surrounding area -- and anyone unlucky enough to be inside the area of effect. The compound itself is a modification of a mixture that has been in use since World War II; thermite, barium nitrate, sulphur and binding agent. The grenade's delayed fuse is ignited by first pulling the pin and then releasing the handle, usually released as the grenade is thrown. It will detonate after a period of several seconds.\par
\par
The standard American M71 grenade consists of a core of C8 explosive, an inner layer of incendiary agent, and an outer plastic casing that provides no fragmentation but more importantly doesn't slow down or otherwise impede the delivery of the payload over a large area. The M71's casing is a smooth cylinder shape, unlike the old 'pineapple' grenades of World War 2, to make it easier to roll across various surfaces.\par
\par
Like all hand grenades, their range is limited, but they can be an essential tool for achieving control of the battlefield.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Incendiary grenades are tactical weapons that should be used to contain or herd the enemy into disadvantageous ground. They cannot be thrown very far, but they can serve to block off escape routes, to flush out rooms, or simply to catch the enemy in a blazing inferno.\par
\par
Care should be taken that no friendlies (especially civilians) are caught in the area of effect, as the effect of the thermate cocktail on human tissue is a particular public relations nightmare. In such situations the use of lethal grenades is strongly discouraged; flashbangs should be given preference.\par
\par
It's recommended that all soldiers carrying non-heavy weapons should be equipped with at least one grenade of some variety -- be it an incendiary grenade, frag grenade, flashbang or other -- in case the need should arise. Two or more are strongly recommended.\par
\ul\par
\par
Addenda\par
\ulnone\par
\pard None.\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Technical Specifications: Smoke Grenade\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability, operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.\par
\par
The 'Artificial Fog' smoke grenade was developed by the African league of nations during the war on the diamond cartels. It is an ingenious design which proves that, even in the age of electronic perception, the smoke grenade hasn't outlived its usefulness. There is no vision system that cannot be defeated somehow, and upgraded smoke grenades like the Artificial Fog grenade can block infrared sighting equipment as easily as they block the Mk. 1 Eyeball.\par
\par
The Artificial Fog grenade is what is called a 'bursting' smoke grenade. Instead of pouring smoke out of holes in the top, it bursts apart much like an incendiary grenade and covers a large area of ground with titanium tetrachloride, which quickly produces vast clouds of corrosive white smoke. It also fills the air with minuscule 'chaff', flakes of iron that refract radar waves and generally muck up the electronic picture of the battlefield. Other trace additives to the smoke help refract most of the non-visible EM spectrum. Even alien technology has trouble sifting through the thick soup.\par
\par
Titanium tetrachloride smoke by itself is slightly harmful to human beings due to its acidity. The additives make it more dangerous, especially breathing iron flakes, but it's nothing our medics can't deal with.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Smoke grenades are an important tool to hide our approaches, cover tactical withdrawals, and to temporarily lock unwanted participants out of a firefight. It is recommended that every soldier carry one for these purposes. Not every mission may require concealment, but we can never know when the opportune moment will present itself.\par
\par
Gas masks are recommended if several smokescreens pile up on each other.\par
\ul\par
\par
Addenda\par
\ulnone\par
\pard None.\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Technical Specifications: Medikit\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 19 March 2084\par
By: Surgeon-Captain Helen Floydd, Medical Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
In the past, the application of first aid and field surgery in hostile situations required specially-trained combat medics and surgeons who could handle the stresses of saving lives under fire. Troops who saw their friends being hit usually had no choice but to keep fighting and hope the medics would arrive in time -- that is, if they didn't freeze or panic or make some futile attempt at a field dressing without ability or materials. If the wounded survived at all, they'd still be out of action for weeks or months at a time.\par
\par
This may have been a workable strategy in the trenches of World War 2, but it isn't any longer. Waiting for a medic to arrive on the scene can contribute to the death of a soldier who might have been saved by immediate aid. The prompt application of trauma medicine needs to be made as quick and easy as possible so that any soldier can provide life-saving effort with minimal training. This is where the modern medikit comes in.\par
\par
Every medikit contains an onboard computer that can diagnose injuries via directed X-ray and ultrasound. It can run ECGs and EEGs at the same time, measure blood pressure and heart rate, and even calculate the soldier's combat effectiveness based on his or her individual record (stored in a small subdermal chip for medical, locational and identification purposes). All this information can be shown in a small hologram or displayed directly to a soldier's helmet information system. At the same time the medikit can deploy a number of drugs and sterile surgical tools for emergency operations, cauterise wounds via a special heating iron, and -- most importantly -- apply its store of nanorobots to a wound.\par
\par
The old idea of medical nanobots was first put into practice by Vietnamese researchers thirty years ago. Today, medicine without them is almost unthinkable. Nanobots are tiny robots several nanometres in diameter which can be programmed to perform specific tasks on the fly. They will quickly sterilise a wound and seal ruptured arteries, alert the medikit operator about any internal bleeding, request suction at appropriate places, patch up bowel or stomach punctures, revive or remove necrotic tissue, and repair nerve damage. They dissolve harmlessly in the victim's bloodstream once their battery runs out, which lasts no longer than 10 to 15 seconds, often not long enough to stabilise heavily-wounded troops. Two or more doses of nanobots may be required. Any number of doses can be applied and metabolised with no ill effects.\par
\par
This technology is the most important breakthrough in trauma surgery ever made. It can do everything except regenerate tissue. If more attention is required -- for example when a vital organ is hit, or a bullet is lodged in a critical place -- the medikit provides equipment and detailed instructions for the soldier to follow. It can never replace the operating room, but it's as close to a portable hospital as we'll ever get.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
All our soldiers have been trained in the use of the medikit. In fact, in an ideal situation, every soldier would carry one for immediate use -- but I recognise that our troops have a limited carrying capacity. All major wounds should be treated without delay to prevent complications and further risk to the injured soldier. If the victim can still walk, she should retreat from the firefight and seek cover in order to safely receive treatment by a comrade.\par
\par
The medikit's onboard pharmacy can also be used to revive unconscious soldiers. If this is done, please take care to remove the revived troop from the line of fire as soon as possible and proceed with further treatment from a safe position. The medic herself may be forced to engage approaching targets to enable the patient's escape; this is acceptable practice, but please supply the medic with adequate covering fire. Trading one soldier's life for another does not make for good battlefield mathematics.\par
\par
Once a wounded soldier makes it back to base alive, our medical team will take over treatment. The risk of anyone succumbing to battlefield trauma while in a PHALANX ward is less than one percent, and as near to zero as we can make it.\par
\par
\ul\par
Addenda\par
\ulnone\par
\pard None.\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Technical Specifications: Combat Armour\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Delta Clearance\par
Filed: 20 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds, and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.\par
\par
The Excalibur Program was created not only to find the right weapons to combat the alien threat, but also to find armour and other items of battlefield utility to help our soldiers complete their missions and return to base alive. These items are designed to increase a soldier's combat effectiveness or general survivability.\par
\par
The use of armour on the battlefield never quite died out completely, though it was rendered ineffective in most forms between the early 18th century and the late 20th. It began to find its way back to common use in World War 1 in the form of steel helmets. This practice continued through WW2, and was later superceded by the invention of kevlar. Today, however, kevlar is thoroughly obsolete in nearly all its forms; it's now used only by civilians and police forces with budget problems. Even more advanced types of 20th-century body armour have been rendered useless by modern weapons. New materials were needed, materials to make armour stronger and its wearers tougher than ever before.\par
\par
Surprisingly, several ancient files we've unearthed seem to confirm that PHALANX was responsible for some amazing technological breakthroughs in the past, technologies that were later adopted across the world. Every attempt at producing artificial spider silk had failed, but researchers at the PHALANX Pacific Operations Command base finally managed it in 2017. Their technique is still in use today, centred around a device called the 'organic loom'; a large feeding armature supporting hundreds of individual silk glands and spinnerets, designed solely for the mass-production of spider silk.\par
\par
The first widespread use of military combat armour made from spider silk came as a joint effort by NATO in 2023, after ballistic tests proved that Chinese rounds tore right through their aging standard-issue kevlar vests. The armour itself is a layercake of spider silk and treated ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, giving it astonishing strength and flexibility. The resulting fabric is about 18 times stronger than steel and provides a performance increase over kevlar that is estimated between 300 and 400%. Suits made primarily from polyethylene became obsolete after artificial spider silk was released into the wider market, and the new composite armour soon replaced it in military use throughout the world. The armour has been upgraded to move with the times, being so effective that it is still in common use today. It features pockets on the front and back that can take ceramic or metal inserts to further protect vital areas.\par
\par
The Combat Armour's only disadvantage is its relatively high weight compared to older suits, but this is mainly due to the number of layers required to properly protect against modern weapons. The weight is evenly distributed, making it quite comfortable to wear and much less bulky than experimental nanocomposite armours. This armour will save lives while preserving the soldier's all-important mobility.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Where possible, PHALANX troops should always wear armour whenever they are sent into a combat situation. The Combat Armour should be considered the basic protection no soldier can afford to go without. For some soldiers, the Combat Armour will remain a viable choice compared to heavier, more advanced armours due to the freedom of movement it provides. Snipers and anyone else not expected to be at the front line will be able to make good use of the extra mobility.\par
\par
\ul\par
Addenda\par
\ulnone\par
\pard None.\f1\par
\b\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\f0\fs24 AUTOPSIES \lang1033\f1\fs20\par
\pard\par
\b0\i Prerequisites:\par
 1 Bloodspider corpse\par
Result:\par
 Re: Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 01 June 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
We've recovered a new alien corpse from the battlefield. We should begin dissection and assessment as soon as possible.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider\par
Opens:\par
 Monomolecular Blades, with Alien Artifact -- Kerrblade\par
\b\i0\par
TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 06 June 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Re: Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
My team has analysed the remains of the arachnid machine our operatives brought back, and we have prepared a summary for your review.\par
\par
Autopsy reveals that the creature is a complex robot without any organic components. Its body is reminiscent of the terrestrial spider; a central body housing the artificial brain and power cells, and eight legs driven by powerful servomotors that allow it to move across the battlefield at frightening speeds. It is equipped with razor-sharp mandibles which can dissect human victims on the spot and store tissue or whole organs in a large cavity located in front of the power cells. These machines have been recorded cutting apart live humans during a terror mission and storing their biomass for retrieval. The process is gruesome and very, very short.\par
\par
Our soldiers have dubbed the creature 'Bloodspider', and the name has stuck.\par
\par
Ballistics testing on samples of the Bloodspider's armour plating reveal that it is very tough and has excellent insulating properties, making it effective against a wide variety of weapons.\par
\par
-- The armour is highly resistant to lasers, electricity and incendiary ammunition, but it can be penetrated by high-velocity armour-piercing rounds and plasma weapons.\par
\par
-- High explosives also achieve good results, as they tend to damage the vulnerable leg joints. This may be the most effective way to take these creatures out.\par
\par
-- Due to its robotic nature, the Bloodspider is immune to tachyon weaponry and psionics.\par
\par
The existence of this creature raises some frightening questions. It suggests that the aliens are taking a very personal interest in us, and they're not asking questions. Commander, these machines pose a dire threat to any human that comes close. If encountered, they should be destroyed immediately and at all costs.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 ALIEN ARTIFACTS\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 Alien Autopsy -- Antarean, OR\par
 Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok, OR\par
 Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar\par
Opens:\par
 Live Alien\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 20 May 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Alien Breathing Apparatus\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
I have made a thorough examination of the devices found during the alien autopsies we've performed. I believe we're now ready to present our conclusions.\par
\par
From our investigation of tissue growth and scarring around the alien larynx, we conclude that these artifacts are surgically implanted in an alien's throat at a very early age. Somewhere during adolescence, the child-sized device is removed and an adult version is implanted.\par
\par
We've examined several different possibilities for the device's function, from food preprocessors to suicide equipment, but the obvious answer turned out to be the correct one. It is some kind of respirator, allowing the aliens to survive in our atmosphere, and possibly other atmospheres as well. Every organic specimen we've autopsied has carried one of these devices, all with the same basic functionality, implying that their constant operation is either required for survival on the alien homeworld or that we are seeing only specimens which are intended for frequent planetary operations. Certainly external breathing apparatus would be easier and more economical to use if these specimens were only intended to take short trips into hostile atmospheres.\par
\par
The device itself consists of a sophisticated filter stretched across the subject's windpipe, and two small spherical tanks positioned on either side of the brainstem, connected to the windpipe by a small metal tube. These tanks are filled with a gas mixture compressed into a liquid state, functioning much like a scuba diver's oxygen bottles. The filter mechanism is semi-intelligent; it scrupulously removes all elements that are harmful to the subject, but allows beneficial elements to pass through. The tanks are refilled by way of a small mechanical navel at the back of the alien's neck.\par
\par
An examination of the tanks' contents has given us our first accurate data on the alien atmosphere. We now have several mixtures on record that we believe will be able to support various alien lifeforms in our Containment unit. A few of the mixtures are nitrogen-oxygen compounds, very similar to our own, but others don't contain any oxygen at all. If all of these mixtures are actively used by one or more alien species, some of our enemies seem to breathe an atmosphere of almost pure methane.\par
\par
The vastly different mixtures are actually giving us a bit of a puzzle. Surely it would be more economical to use segregated crews than to force these species to coexist in the same place?\par
\par
Future questions aside, I'm well pleased with our present results. We can now store aliens in our Containment unit for prolonged periods of time -- they will no longer suffocate when their atmosphere tanks run out. This usually happens after 24 hours at most, so no delays should be afforded when we manage to capture a specimen.\par
\par
My team and I are all looking forward to finally getting our hands on a live one, Commander.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 1 Plasma pistol\par
Result:\par
 Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Pistol\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 27 May 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Alien Artifact -- Plasma Pistol\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
--Cdr. Navarre\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Alien Artifact -- Plasma Pistol\par
Opens:\par
 \par
\i0\par
\b TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 27 May 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Pistol\par
\par
When the aliens need a sidearm, they don't screw around.\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
--Cdr. Navarre\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 THE ALIEN BODY\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 1 live alien\par
Result:\par
 Re: Live Alien\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 01 June 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Live Alien\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
We have captured a live alien in the field! The creature has been recovered from our last tactical mission and is being held in our new Containment unit, which I'm pleased to report seems to be working up to spec.\par
\par
I don't need to explain why we should start research on this specimen right away. The information that could be gleaned from it supercedes all other considerations. Up until now we've had no chance to study the alien mind, their thoughts and motivations, except through their continued attacks upon our world. This is our first chance to discover the aliens' purpose for humanity, perhaps even an explanation. Who are they? Why are they here? What can we do against them? We can know nothing without interrogating this specimen.\par
\par
Please send your approval for this program at your earliest convenience.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: Live Alien\par
Opens:\par
 The Alien Mind\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\b0\tab Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 18 June 2084\par
\b SUB:\b0\tab Re: Live Alien\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
We have finished our first survey of a live alien specimen. The project has produced mixed results.\par
\par
The subject is certainly alive, and we have put it through an extensive array of toxicology experiments which have provided vital data about its vulnerabilities to various chemicals and bio-agents. However, we have been completely unable to produce a behavioural analysis of the alien mind. This is because the specimen has showed virtually no signs of intelligence since its capture. It has done little more than eat, sleep, and stare at the walls of its containment unit. It responds to physical stimuli with reflex actions, aggression and/or submission, but we could not coax any information out of it. Even simple hand signals seem to be beyond the creature's comprehension. EEG monitoring reveals that the seemingly highly-developed brain registers virtually no brainwave activity at all.\par
\par
It is hard to believe this same specimen could have fired advanced alien weaponry at our troops during a tactical mission. There is no physical trauma that might explain the regression. Perhaps its capture has activated some manner of alien counter-interrogation mechanism; we don't know. None of my team have managed to produce a viable hypothesis as to the reason why. Certainly more research is required. We will keep monitoring the specimen, and will notify you immediately if the situation changes.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 10 live aliens\par
 Live Alien\par
 The Alien Mind\par
Result:\par
 Re: Odd Behaviour\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 19 November 2084\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Odd Behaviour\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
The live aliens in our Containment unit have begun to display erratic behaviour since the last tactical mission.\par
\par
Before, the specimens were barely intelligent, operating solely on instinct despite their significantly-developed brain structures. Yet they now seem to be exercising some sort of initelligent control, clearly communicating through the soundproof cells and operating as a team, even going so far as to engineer coordinated escape attempts. Sedative darts were required to subdue the more active specimens.\par
\par
We believe the new specimens recently added to Containment are having some sort of effect on the group. They may be higher-ranking members of the alien hierarchy. If we have captured an alien officer, or if there is some entirely different cause for the new behaviour, we need to investigate the how and why of this right away. On behalf of the B&C Division, I would like your permission to start a new research project to look into the matter.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: Odd Behaviour\par
Opens:\par
 Alien Communication\par
 A New Twist\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 30 December 2084\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: Odd Behaviour\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
We have spent the past few weeks investigating these strange occurrences in our Containment unit, and we believe we've formulated a theory that may begin to explain the aliens' newfound intelligence.\par
\par
It seems that we were off in our preliminary appraisal of how the alien intellect works. We first believed them to be autonomously operating individuals, in the same way humans are, though with superior communications and team tactics. However, our lab experiments and an intense review of battlefield footage now seem to contradict that hypothesis.\par
\par
In our video records, we have often seen the aliens seeking cover, coordinating their fire, working as a team even though they carry no obvious communications equipment. However, when we captured a few live specimens in our Containment unit, they never displayed anything above the level of animal instinct. This seems incongruous with the evidence we have; large, well-developed brain structures and a proven knowledge of combat tactics.\par
\par
We sought to reconcile these ideas in a new hypothesis, and our experiments have begun to produce tangible results. The new specimens certainly are responsible for the strange behaviour we've observed, but we originally assumed that they were officers of some type under colour of authority. We now believe that theory to also be wrong. Our experiments prove that when the aliens are allowed to congregate, with or without the suspected 'officers', they become significantly more active and sophisticated. When they are separated from each other for a large enough distance, they revert back to their basic states. The conclusion is obvious. There is some kind of communal force binding these creatures together.\par
\par
A string of new theories has emerged. The most likely explanation is in the alien brain. There are several species of alien, all of which meet the physiological requirements for a sentient species, but they show little to no brainwave activity of their own. This implies the presence of some kind of shared or distributed thought between them, a hive mind that grows more intelligent as it grows in numbers. We're not sure how it's possible for this hive mind to cross species boundaries; it's obvious that the different alien races originated on different worlds, with vastly divergent evolutionary paths, and some species appear to have been around far longer than others. However, given the aliens' advanced technology, the 'how' is less of an enigma than the 'why'.\par
\par
These new findings also seem to suggest that specimens down on Earth are cut off from the source of their intelligence. While this may be an important advantage for PHALANX forces, it also brings up threats we had not yet considered. Our research into alien physiology has established that isolated specimens cannot survive very long in our environment, and behave with little enough intelligence while they're on the surface; but if a large enough number is allowed to escape and coordinate with each other -- or with alien sympathisers on Earth -- we could be looking at a serious infiltration risk.\par
\par
With several specimens on hand, their intelligence now seems to be approaching the human level. If we can create a suitable translation device or common language, we believe we may finally be able to establish communications with aliens in PHALANX captivity. Perhaps some of our linguists or psychology experts could form a dialogue. This is an avenue of inquiry that we cannot afford to ignore.\par
\par
Of course, if such experiments were to be approved by the Base Commander, I assure you that my team would take full precautions. Nothing is more important to us than the lives of our men and the security of our facilities.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 3 alien autopsies\par
 Odd Behaviour\par
Opens:\par
 The Enemy On Earth\par
 Alien Communication\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 21 January 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab A New Twist\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
New information has come to light during the last batch of autopsies you requested. Our reports stand, but we've discovered a commonality that may give us some new insight into the aliens' diversity.\par
\par
During our first analyses of the aliens' cellular structure, we encountered some anomalies where our DNA replication tests would fail due to unexplained sample contamination. We initially discarded this as human error, but the problem has continued to appear with surprising regularity. The same result, again and again; every time we run a sample that hasn't been cryofrozen for storage, we have difficulty extracting a single uncontaminated sequence. I spent some of my off hours studying the problem, and I believe I've found the cause.\par
\par
The simplest explanation is this: There are two types of DNA present in our blood samples. The foreign DNA's prevalence is total; these sequences can be found in every member of the Antarean species, and closer study has confirmed that similar sequences exist in the blood of other species we've recovered. The number of chromosomes is identical in all versions of this foreign DNA, but none of the versions can survive in any other body than one of its source species. Also interesting is the fact that all foreign DNA sequences extracted from the same species are completely identical. This leads us to believe that each version may have been engineered -- wholly or in part -- to suit the individual species.\par
\par
We now surmise that all aliens carry a version of this micro-organic infection, either a bacteria or virus. The organism's function is not readily apparent. We've run tests on various experimental tissue samples, both infected and control specimens. The infected tissue does not appear to suffer any negative effects -- or positive ones, for that matter -- from the organism's presence. It is essentially indistinguishable from uninfected tissue. Since the organism requires a living host for its own survival, it seems to be either a parasite or a symbiote with currently unobserved benefits.\par
\par
We have dubbed this organism the EXtraterrestrial Viral Infection, or XVI. As each alien species carries a unique strand of the infection, we have given them alphabetical designations after the source species in which the strand can be found. Antareans have XVI-A, Shevaar have XVI-S, and so forth.\par
\par
The infection's purpose remains nebulous at this point, but it is the only thing we've found so far that binds these diverse races together physically. We can only assume that new strands of the infection were engineered to suit each species.\par
\par
There is no indication that this organism is contagious for humans. When injecting cultures of human tissue with fresh alien blood, we have observed the alien blood being completely rejected, as expected. Unexpectedly, however, any trace of the infection was subsequently annihilated by unvaccinated human T cells. The organism was unable to deactivate our immune system in order to give itself time to take root.\par
\par
We currently do not believe the XVI organism to pose a threat to our soldiers on the battlefield. However, we will continue research and keep you updated about any developments. A thorough blood screening of all our personnel is in progress, just in case, and standard quarantine procedures will be maintained throughout the lab.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 Player attacked by humans\par
 Odd Behaviour\par
Result:\par
 Re: The Enemy On Earth -- URGENT\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 01 February 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: The Enemy On Earth\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
My team and I are deeply troubled by the recent reports of human hostility against PHALANX personnel, as I'm sure you are. We've all seen the battlefield footage. There's no doubt that the attackers were humans like you and me, but it's also clear they were using alien weaponry and equipment -- some of which even PHALANX has never seen before.\par
\par
The worrying questions seem to mount up. First, however, we need to review the facts we have.\par
\par
Do the aliens have active sympathisers on Earth? Yes.\par
\par
Are the aliens supplying these human servants? Affirmative; it's the only explanation for their advanced alien equipment.\par
\par
Do the servants present a threat? Absolutely. Perhaps a greater one than the alien menace itself.\par
\par
We need to delve deeper into what makes these people tick. If we can find out the most common causes for alien infiltration, our Information Division should be able to devise a far more successful propaganda strategy, which could increase our number of volunteers as well as decrease the alien infiltration rate across the globe. The Bio Division also has a stake; we'd like to capture at least one live prisoner for our Containment unit so we can run a full physical examination. If the aliens have bodily altered these humans in addition to training and supplying them, we'd like to find out about it.\par
\par
Director Wong (DivInfo) also asked me to mention that, if we hold off on implementing a new info strategy for too long, we could soon face recruitment shortfalls and increased human resistance as the sympathisers begin getting their word out. I tend to agree. We need to keep this planet together if we are to have any chance against the alien threat.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: The Enemy On Earth\par
Opens:\par
 A Significant Victory\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 09 February 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: The Enemy On Earth -- URGENT\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
You need to read this right away. By your request, we've performed several hurried autopsies and done our best to examine the live prisoners we took on our mission against the alien sympathisers. The results are alarming.\par
\par
Do you remember the report I sent you about the first live alien specimen we researched? As you may remember, it had lost all its intellect and became largely unresponsive without fellows to empower the hive mind. Prepare yourself, Commander: The human prisoner in our Containment unit exhibits the \b very same symptoms\b0 . A thorough blood analysis has produced conclusive evidence that the prisoner is infected with an XVI strand.\par
\par
This new strand is slightly different from the others we've encountered, and we fear it can only be designated "XVI-H". It appears to be willfully designed to infect humans with the alien hive mind. It overrides their own rational thought processes and replaces them with a direct link into the group, whether there actually is a group or not, through a process we currently fail to understand. Our subjects run the gamut of the human race; the virus seems to have no preference for IQ or physical potential. The infection method appears to be a direct injection of infected blood into the victim's bloodstream. It is premeditated and ruthless. Any amount of shared blood is enough for the infection to take root.\par
\par
Quarantine procedures have been tightened to the absolute maximum, and we're rushing another full batch of tests on all our personnel. Our field agents remain clean, thank God -- just think if we'd gone into a combat zone with soldiers capable of turning on their teammates at any moment! -- but I fear we have found one conclusive result. It's Dr. Eisenhower, our Director of Administration. He's been away on holiday since last week, but we ran an older sample which has now come up positive. We don't know when or how he was subverted or if he even joined PHALANX with honourable intentions, but it's clear he has acted as an alien spy for some weeks. Unfortunately we can't seem to find him at his announced destination. Internal Security has taken charge of his workstation and is in the process of information control.\par
\par
Things are a bit hectic right now. Dr. Eisenhower's infection implies that other members of a hive mind -- human or alien -- were in close enough proximity to allow him to function at human intelligence. He could have linked up with our subjects in Containment, or a nearby alien cell, or even other infiltrators inside our base. Right now, we don't know, and we most likely never will. We're all frightened in the Bio lab. My assistant has been jumping at shadows all day.\par
\par
Commander, we \b must\b0  develop a vaccine against XVI-H as soon as possible. The danger of our soldiers and salvage technicians falling victim to the infection in the field is too great to ignore even for a moment. I hereby request your permission to start work on a vaccine immediately. Please, please respond at your earliest convenience.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 The Enemy On Earth\par
Opens:\par
 Second-Generation Vaccine\par
 The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 27 February 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab A Significant Victory\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
We've done it!\par
\par
There has been no rest or sleep for us down in the Bio Division, so please forgive my diction in this message. I haven't been within sight of a bed in three days. But it was worth it. XVI-H is no longer an uncounterable threat.\par
\par
Our first order of business was to identify the \i modus operandi\i0  of the virus as it infects a human body. When tinkering with some of the organism gene sequences, it began to lend itself to large and widespread mutations, which is anomalous with the samples we've extracted from active hosts. In all parts of a host body, the virus maintains its identical nature, and I've managed to figure out how.\par
\par
Once the virus has established itself in the host body, it begins to actively destroy anomalous versions of itself, cross-referencing the makeup of any virions inside the host body to a batch of templates stored in the victim's bone marrow. Interestingly, the bone marrow is where the initial attack lodges itself, at which point it begins to insert itself directly into leukocytes created in the infected marrow. The connection is obvious. This is how it bypasses the human immune system and maintains its own viral hygiene. Once the virus penetrates the victim's bone marrow, it's all over but the shouting.\par
\par
By changing these template virions, we can insert a declawed strain of the virus into an uninfected human body -- a strain that does not enslave the victim to the alien hive mind -- which will then proceed to eliminate any other virion of XVI-H, including the harmful strain straight from the alien source. Unfortunately, we've yet to find a way to alter the templates in an already infected body, as the virus will destroy our vaccine without hesitation.\par
\par
Massive inoculation programs are already in progress across the UN countries. We should be able to completely halt XVI-H spread in a matter of days. Work continues to try and cure those unfortunate souls who've already fallen victim to the infection -- but I fear it might be some time before we can work that miracle.\par
\par
Still, we won't give up until we've beaten this bug once and for all!\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 New wave of alien attacks\par
 A Significant Victory\par
Result:\par
 Re: Second-Generation Vaccine\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 18 March 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Second-Generation Vaccine -- URGENT\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
I'm afraid I have some very bad news.\par
\par
About six hours ago, we received a number of tissue samples from a human raid on Singapore. The local military drove them off, capturing several specimens alive, and sent the samples directly to us. We just finished putting them through a battery of tests. They've come back with harrowing results.\par
\par
We've managed to date the XVI-H template virions in the living bone marrow of captured specimens, and some of the templates are only days old. Not only that, but Singapore officials have since dug up genuine vaccination records to go with several of these results. These people \b could not \b0 have been infected before they were given the PHALANX vaccine.\par
\par
We are currently unsure how this could be possible; nevertheless, there can be no doubt. Somehow the aliens have managed to reengineer the virus to blast right through our vaccine. Gene sequencing has revealed several discrepancies between the XVI-H we know and the new virions recovered from these samples. We are clearly dealing with a new generation of XVI, specifically designed to smash our only defence against this kind of bio-warfare.\par
\par
Commander, we have to research these discrepancies right away and develop a new vaccine before more people fall prey to the infection. XVI must be stopped at all costs. I recommend we halt all other research until we can put together a second-generation vaccine and get it ready for distribution.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: Second-Generation Vaccine\par
Opens:\par
 \par
\b\i0 TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 08 April 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: Second-Generation Vaccine\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 Second-Generation Vaccine\par
 Alien Psionics\par
Result:\par
 Re: Behind The Facade\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 8 March 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Behind The Facade\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
Our continued efforts into producing a full anti-XVI cure have produced a startling discovery. In several of our experiments, we have tried to administer the developing serum to our alien prisoners in order to observe the results. Previously, subjects injected with the serum suffered violent allergic reactions resulting in convulsions, profuse internal bleeding in the lungs and viscera, and coma followed by death. Autopsy revealed the bone marrrow of subjects to have liquified and begun rapid decomposition.\par
\par
Today, however, a subject lived.\par
\par
Commander, the alien has been cut off from the captive hive mind in our Containment unit. It no longer responds to any of the communication methods we have devised, and interrogation of our remaining captives confirms that the hive mind has lost all sensory input from this particular specimen. The subject exhibits infantile behaviour -- it has little control over motor functions, struggling to walk, and acts frightened of everything that moves. It also appears to have lost all knowledge of how to use alien technology. Clearly, their knowledge and experience is contained within the hive rather than any one brain.\par
\par
I cannot stress this enough, Commander; we have to research this phenomenon right away. We're at the cusp of key revelations into the relationship between XVI and the alien hive mind. This could be the piece that puts the entire puzzle in perspective. \par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: Behind The Facade\par
Opens:\par
 \par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 19 March 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: Behind The Facade\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
This is it. We've finally learned the grim truth of the alien threat.\par
\par
During our studies into XVI and the alien hive mind, we occasionally suspected that XVI served some ancillary role in the aliens' shared intelligence, perhaps even going so far as to enable the hive mind. It's now painfully clear that we were not thinking far enough. Our experiments reveal that removing XVI from a subject removes it from the hive mind. The subject's subsequent regression to mental infancy indicates that it has been under the hive mind's influence from birth. This would indicate that the hive mind simply dominates the subject's normal thought processes throughout its entire life, but it does not explain the complete lack of memory upon removal from the hive. Pursuing this, we then discovered other evidence which blew our theories right out of the water.\par
\par
After removal, the subject's brainwave activity \b increased\b0 . This childlike adult now shows as much of an EEG response and as much basic intelligence as any human. Commander, this alien \i has never before used its own brain\i0 .\par
\par
We quickly formed a solid hypothesis that links XVI to the alien thought processes. To put it simply, XVI does not facilitate the hive mind; XVI \b is\b0  the hive mind. The virus itself is what does the thinking for all these alien hosts. It seems to be one whole, a single sentience distributed over billions and billions of microorganisms -- like a distributed computing network -- all connected through some kind of psionic contact. I still can't quite wrap my head around it. This is so far outside everything we know, and its magnitude is staggering.\par
\par
I shall try to make an example using rough figures. Think of a mind which gains 5 IQ points for every host it has. From what we've been able to gather during our interrogation sessions, the alien population may number in the trillions. Now think of a supercomputer twice the size of the sun with near-human, equal-to-human or greater-than-human complexity, that wants to enslave the entire human race. I, for one, will not be getting any sleep tonight.\par
\par
There is simply no way we can compete. It seems the only reasons why Earth hasn't been overrun yet are 1) The alien mind has been busy with another project, and 2) It wants to gain us as XVI hosts, not eradicate us.\par
\par
Our focus must lie in discovering the other alien objective, learning the location of the alien mothership, and finding a way to destroy the mothership along with its entire population. We cannot keep resisting the alien invasion, and we have no chance of winning a research war against this viral intelligence. They will keep coming. They will keep infecting more of us than we can possibly cure or keep vaccinating. We either eradicate this virus at its source or face extinction as a free, independent species.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 THE ALIEN MIND\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 Live Alien\par
 2 live aliens in containment\par
Result:\par
 Re: The Alien Mind\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 25 July 2084\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: The Alien Mind\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
Though we've achieved limited results so far, research must continue on our alien captives. There's a number of experiments we'd like to run that require your authorisation for lab time and funding. I assure you this is not blue-sky research; with enough tests and behavioural data, we may be able to figure out a way to communicate with these aliens, perhaps even reawaken their intelligence somehow. We don't know what the results of the program will be -- we simply know too little about these aliens, our body of data is far too small to make any predictions at this point. What we do know is that every tidbit we learn about alien psychology is a valuable piece of the puzzle.\par
\par
On a personal note, I'm convinced they must know \i something\i0 , Commander. The trick is in getting it out of them, and we're by God going to do it.\par
\par
My team and I are all eagerly awaiting your approval for the program.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: The Alien Mind\par
Opens:\par
 Odd Behaviour\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 01 August 2084\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: The Alien Mind\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
My team has finished conducting a number of tests on our captives that have shed some light on the aliens' behaviour.\par
\par
In one experiment, an alien specimen was given a box of food, sealed by a two-digit number lock. The subject took two hours to find the right combination by trial and error. This places the alien's IQ well below most large terrestrial mammals; however, when the other subjects in the Containment were given the same task, with exactly the same lock, they all immediately input the right combination on their first attempt without having been exposed to the first specimen's attempts. We know how this looks, Commander, but my team and I are not yet willing to commit to any single hypothesis about the underlying mechanics.\par
\par
Unfortunately, results of our other experiments have been inconclusive at best. Various ways of communication have been attempted without success. Despite having fully functional vocal cords and digits, at least between members of the same species, they do not seem to speak in any sense that we understand. Pheromone communication has been ruled out due to the airtight nature of our specimen chambers. The large biological disparity between alien species also creates its own share of problems with containment and communication -- please refer to the alien autopsy reports for more details on individual alien physiology.\par
\par
Nevertheless, I believe we're making progress, however slowly. Communication with the aliens is within the realm of possibility. Our studies confirm that all alien specimens react to external stimuli. This means that we can \ul make\ulnone  them respond, one way or another. Dr. Yamamura is currently working on teaching an isolated group how to express desire, acknowledgement and denial. Their intelligence is too limited to attempt anything more sophisticated at the moment. Once the subjects have mastered these basic concepts, we will have some data on the rate at which the aliens can learn, and a solid foundation upon which to build. Yamamura hopes we can gradually raise their communication skills until they can make themselves intelligible to us, thereby spreading this knowledge to others of their kind who may possess superior intellect and talents.\par
\par
As always, I will keep you informed, Commander.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 The Alien Mind\par
 Odd Behaviour\par
Result:\par
 Re: Alien Communication\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 01 August 2084\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Alien Communication\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
The increasing intellect of the captive aliens in our Containment unit leads me to conclude that we can finally begin to get a real handle on alien communication and, more importantly, getting some useable information out of them. Quoting from my report:\par
\par
(Odd Behaviour)\par
"There are several species of alien, all of which meet the physiological requirements for a sentient species, but they show little to no brainwave activity of their own. This implies the presence of some kind of shared or distributed thought between them, a hive mind that grows more intelligent as it grows in numbers."\par
\par
"With several specimens on hand, their intelligence now seems to be approaching the human level. If we can create a suitable translation device or common language, we believe we may finally be able to establish communications with aliens in PHALANX captivity. Perhaps some of our linguists or psychology experts could form a dialogue. This is an avenue of inquiry that we cannot afford to ignore."\par
\par
Dr. Yamamura is beginning to make real progress on this front, teaching the aliens several new words of sign language every day, but we require lab time and funding for a proper study of what these aliens know and how it can help us. The ability to interrogate aliens about their own technology could be of incomparable value to our soldiers and engineers. Cdr. Navarre was so excited at the prospect, he almost argued in favour of the Bio division on this one.\par
\par
Thank you for your time, Commander. Please approve this program as soon as feasible.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\i\par
Origin:\par
 Proposal: Alien Communication\par
Opens:\par
 The Universal Serum\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 09 January 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: Alien Communication\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
I'm happy to report that we've recieved the first good results in our ongoing efforts to question captive aliens in our Containment unit. Dr. Yamamura's approach has gradually begun to bear fruit. The aliens have learned to convey messages in both binary code and human-readable sign language, and they appear to comprehend a wide range of questions and instructions. Yamamura and his staff are still working to refine the sign language we've been using, while the rest of my team has concentrated on trying to extract useful information from the hive mind. This hasn't been easy. The aliens are very reticent and require a great deal of chemical encouragement in order to put them into a more helpful frame of mind. The casualty rate has been high.\par
\par
However, what we have is significant. For instance, the hive mind seems to have no identity. It seems unable to grasp concepts like "I" or "We", or even "You" and "Them". It only accepts these words as numerical differentiations -- one specimen or several, one human or a group. This indicates a severe disconnect between human and alien thinking. The shared consciousness doesn't even think of itself as a single enclosed entity; it merely \ul is\ulnone . This, along with various other answers we've pieced together from our continued sessions, leads us to believe that all aliens do indeed share one single mind. And I mean \b all\b0  of them, Commander. It's not simply a means of increasing team efficiency or encouraging \i esprit de corps\i0 ; it's an indispensible component of alien society. Every alien that lives and breathes is an equal and identical part of the greater hive mind, even specimens of completely different species. The only diversity the aliens will acknowledge is in the different substances required to keep the various species alive.\par
\par
Also, they have expressed puzzlement at our attempts to communicate with individual aliens, let alone through something as crude as sign language. A human-understandable analogy might be trying to have a deep conversation with someone's toenail, or talking to a single cell in your own body. Of course, that raises the question of where the alien ears and brain really are.\par
\par
Certainly the handful of aliens currently in our Containment unit are \b not\b0  part of the greater hive mind that we hypothesize exists on the alien homeworld. They seem to be cut off from it for the duration of their mission to Earth, only to rejoin it when they return later. Whether this is due to distance or some kind of atmospheric effect, we've not yet been able to tell. The aliens' answers are hazy on this subject.\par
\par
That is all I have to report, Commander. However, as a final note, I would like to request your permission to look into methods we could use to more effectively persuade our captives. I must also stress that we require a healthy influx of new alien specimens in order to replace losses. We have to maintain the isolated hive mind we have in Containment. Losing it now would be a significant setback to our research.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 Alien Communication\par
Result:\par
 Re: The Universal Serum\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 25 January 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: The Universal Serum\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
As you may know, our efforts at communication with the live aliens in our Containment unit are progressing only very slowly. We're having a great deal of trouble applying our standard interrogation methods. The truth serum we have available has several distinct limitations; it tends to produce a lethal allergic reaction in most alien bodies unless we restrict it to smaller, insufficient doses, which worsens the serum's already incomplete effect on alien physiology. We've encountered numerous small lies and half-truths in the sessions we've taken so far. Torture has been attempted to influence this behaviour, but to no avail. Pain seems to have no corrective effect on the hive mind.\par
\par
There's also the larger hurdle of having to inject every single specimen of the hive mind in order to properly submerge any subject's sense of judgment. If one member of the hive mind dies, the remaining specimens' adrenaline-equivalent levels rise to the point where we have to start over.\par
\par
To this end, armed with our expanded knowledge of the alien mind and body, I propose a new research program to look into a universal set of sera that we can use to extract more reliable information, faster and more easily. There is obviously a great deal of information inside these specimens waiting to be seized, Commander; we just need the tools to properly crack the shell.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: The Universal Serum\par
Opens:\par
 \par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 30 February 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: The Universal Serum\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 PSIONICS\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 The Enemy On Earth\par
Result:\par
 Re: Alien Psionics\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 07 October 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Alien Psionics\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: Alien Psionics\par
Opens:\par
 The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited\par
 Behind The Facade, with Second-Generation Vaccine\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 29 October 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: Alien Psionics\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 The Enemy On Earth\par
 Alien Psionics\par
Result:\par
 \par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 30 March 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
While going over some of our old data about our first XVI-H test vaccines, I noticed an interesting effect in some of our test subjects. Quoting from my report:\par
\par
(A Significant Victory)\par
"When tinkering with some of the organism gene sequences, it began to lend itself to large and widespread mutations, which is anomalous with the samples we've extracted from active hosts. In all parts of a host body, the virus maintains its identical nature, and I've managed to figure out how.\par
\par
Once the virus has established itself in the host body, it begins to actively destroy anomalous versions of itself, cross-referencing the makeup of any virions inside the host body to a batch of templates stored in the victim's bone marrow. Interestingly, the bone marrow is where the initial attack lodges itself, at which point it begins to insert itself directly into leukocytes created in the infected marrow. The connection is obvious. This is how it bypasses the human immune system and maintains its own viral hygiene."\par
\par
The possibilities may not seem apparent at first; certainly they had not seemed apparent to me until I went over the mutation results. Even though the organism we researched a month ago is outdated compared to the one we face now, we've been able to make some very interesting changes to its genetic makeup during our test runs. These changes are most apparent in the effects reported by our test subjects. They have claimed to be able to sense other test subjects through walls -- without even knowing about the existence of other subjects. In some cases, the entire test batch began unknowingly using expressions or turns of phrase that one or more of the subjects were fond of. However, they do not seem to have formed a hive mind or communal identity of any sort, and do not lose their individual intellect when separated from each other. The reports do not appear to be restricted exclusively to XVI-carriers either; a small number of subjects injected with a particular test vaccine have apparently been able to detect unvaccinated lab staff before entering the room. This is currently uncorroborated, but it meshes with the fact that the aliens are able to remotely influence human minds regardless of vaccination.\par
\par
Allow me to cut to the chase. We believe we may be able to insert a genetically-engineered virus of our own to control certain changes to the XVI organism -- given enough research -- and possibly alter its function to be beneficial to a human host. For example, if we could equip our soldiers with this enhanced awareness about their relative locations, it would yield significant gains in closer team tactics and would decrease the response time for meeting a new threat. This is a fascinating possibility that holds awesome potential, though I realise it is an offshoot of our other XVI research and we may not be able to give it precedence. I believe it could be well worth the research effort.\par
\par
If you disagree with my assessment, I will respect your decision, and I assure you I won't let these ideas distract me from my normal work.\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited\par
Opens:\par
 \par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 12 April 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited\par
\par
Commander,\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
Sincerely,\par
Dr. Connor\par
\par
\par
\i Prerequisites:\par
 The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited\par
Result:\par
 Re: Alien Infiltration\par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 12 December 2085\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Proposal: Alien Infiltration\par
\par
Good morning, Sir.\par
\par
(more here)\par
\par
With kind regards,\par
Col. Falkland\par
\par
\par
\i Origin:\par
 Proposal: Alien Infiltration\par
Opens:\par
 \par
\i0\par
\b TO:\tab\b0 Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b FROM:\b0\tab Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\b DATE:\b0\tab 14 January 2086\b\par
SUB:\b0\tab Re: Alien Infiltration\par
\par
Good morning, Sir.\par
\par
I've been working on your request for accurate intelligence on the level and concentration of XVI infection among the general population, and I think my department and I have found a solution.\par
\par
You'll find the precise details of the overall strategic plan in the attached file. To put it simply, we'll be working with a number of existing national intelligence agencies, which -- with our assistance -- will train teams of psionically capable operatives and station them in key positions all over the globe. These operatives will make daily reports about any XVI psionic influence that they can sense. Multiple agents will be stationed separately and independently in any one area, without knowledge of each other's whereabouts, identities or their very existence. This will reduce the risk of information contamination and immediately alert us to any alien subversion.\par
\par
We'll be using a modified version of Dr. Connor psionic virus, which will allow these non-PHALANX operatives to passively and reliably sense psionic activity but has been neutered to keep the operative's developing psionic talents to a minimum. Connor tells me the modified strain will function as an XVI vaccine in itself, but no third party will be able to use it to produce combat-viable psionics. Reverse-engineering it would require years of work in a PHALANX-grade lab without a significant understanding of the viral genome.\par
\par
I've applied your authorisation to begin immediate prep for this deployment plan. You can expect the first results very soon.\par
\par
With kind regards,\par
Col. Falkland\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 AIRCRAFT\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
Aircraft Evaluation -- Firebird-class Dropship\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 17 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
Commander, I've been over these old files before you, and I have decided to replace them with my own assessment and conclusions about our choice of dropship. Apologies if I'm overstepping my bounds, but the old PHALANX dropships in storage are simply not up to modern spec. None of them even got out of the prototype stage when they were new. There are only two surviving examples, and both of those ships have been left mothballed in government warehouses for the past 60 years, not worth the trouble to dig out of storage. We've inherited a real mess with regards to equipment, I can't even find half the stuff that's supposed to be waiting for us. I'm doing my best to find superior alternatives for gear that just isn't up to the task.\par
\par
The one bit of good luck in this dropship mess is that I managed to persuade our UN rep to earmark some budget for a new ship, and I think you'll like it.\par
\par
The Galeoth Firebird VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) is the best aircraft we can hope to employ in our dropship role. It was designed as a cargo hauler, but has quickly been picked up and adapted into a troop transport by military contractors. It has since become a popular alternative to helicopters in both the military and civilian worlds due to its four HM-5600 pulse detonation engines, which provide the Firebird with VTOL capability and achieve good fuel-efficiency with far fewer moving parts than any helicopter engine. This increases reliability across the board and makes for a vastly faster aircraft partly due to the lack of rotor blades. The HM-5600s are still very thirsty engines, however, and the high-powered aviation fuel can be too expensive for civilian applications.\par
\par
The Firebird's cruising speed is Mach 0.94. At a maximum velocity of Mach 1.03 it can just barely squeak through the sound barrier, but this causes a lot of stress on the airframe and should be avoided outside of emergencies. It has one variable weapons hardpoint located on its nose, which will mount anti-air weapons such as aircraft cannons or missile racks. It can also carry additional equipment to improve its flight characteristics and combat performance. There are acceleration harnesses for up to 8 soldiers and a cargo bay which can contain and deploy small battlefield vehicles.\par
\par
There is nothing else in the sky as well-suited to our dropship role as the Firebird. It is faster than any helicopter, more manoeuvrable than any fixed-wing aeroplane, and it can respond quickly and efficiently to threats all over the world.\par
\par
The Firebird requires 1 Large Hangar for storage, maintenance and deployment. It has 1 medium weapon hardpoint located in the nose.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The dropship is what will carry our troops around the world, in order to respond to alien attacks on the ground or to clear UFO crash sites for recovery. It should be deployed immediately to sites of alien activity and to recover downed alien craft.\par
\par
Once a site has been cleared of live aliens, heavily-wounded soldiers will immediately be dispatched for medical treatment. The remaining troops will secure the area until a PHALANX recovery team can take over and ensure delivery of any and all alien artifacts to our facilities. This is important because attempted looting of items left on the battlefield may become a problem in densely-populated regions. We can't afford to lose valuable alien technology because some idiot feels the need to take a souvenir.\par
\par
While armed, a Firebird-class dropship is not able to stand up to dedicated fighters, and it should never be sent as the sole interceptor to any UFO sighting.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Aircraft Evaluation -- Stiletto-class Interceptor\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 04 November 2026\par
By: Dr. Richard Strohm, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
I'm very happy to report that the first production model of our next-generation interceptor has been completed and passed all of its flight tests with flying colours. At the risk of sounding boastful, it may be the finest piece of human technology ever produced.\par
\par
The Stiletto is a single-seat air superiority fighter with VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) capability, allowing it to set down on tiny landing pads or in the middle of nowhere if necessary. Its huge, high-performance turbofans can turn 360 degrees for full manoeuvrability even at supersonic speeds. The giant engine intakes are protected by a sophisticated air channeling system that actively filters the air in front of the engine and redirects any piece of material large enough to harm the fan blades. They are more than powerful enough to lift the heavily-armoured fuselage and can hover unassisted for up to two hours before burning through all their fuel.\par
\par
The helicopter-like design may not look very fast, but appearances can be deceiving. The Stiletto's compact airframe can survive anything up to Mach 2 for short periods of time; it has a cruising speed of Mach 1.3 and a max velocity of 1.8 on afterburners. These high marks put the Stiletto well ahead of many military jet fighters which do not have supercruise ability.\par
\par
Once in the air, it can jump like a jackrabbit and is utterly ruthless in the hands of an experienced pilot. It can turn laterally around its hangar complex in six seconds whilst keeping its nose machine gun on the target at all times. It can flip end over end in point-three seconds and acquire missile lock on stealth aircraft before the turn is even complete.\par
\par
Missiles are fitted on hardpoints mounted just under the outer winglets. The Stiletto also has powerful Electronic Warfare capabilities, with a state-of-the-art sensor suite contained inside the nose that includes -- but is not limited to -- several targeting lasers, a sophisticated radar system, and optical imaging as powerful as any spy satellite. Small ECM emitters placed in strategic points across the fuselage will throw off missile lock and can actively jam incoming radar. The weapon hardpoints can take a variety of armaments, and the electronics are fully modular to accept upgrades. Remember, however, that space in this craft is at a premium.\par
\par
The powerful Volkot VO-36 engines consume a large amount of fuel, and the Stiletto's capacity is not large. Leaving enough fuel for interception, its maximum effective range is no greater than 2000 kilometres. However, within this radius, this craft is the master of all it surveys.\par
\par
Please note that because of its exceptional performance this craft is not recommended for use by novice pilots. Its handling at low speeds has been described by our test crews as 'tricky'.\par
\par
The Stiletto requires 1 Small Hangar for storage, maintenance and deployment. It has 3 weapon hardpoints; 1 small nose mount and 2 medium wing mounts.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The Stiletto is ideal for short-range interception of hostile craft that threaten PHALANX bases or nearby civilian targets. It can go toe-to-toe with anything on Earth and it will win. However, the Stiletto can't be deployed against targets more distant than 2000 kilometres from its hangar as it won't have enough fuel for both attack manoeuvres and the flight back to base. Inflight refuelling may be considered to extend the combat radius, but will require additional development.\par
\par
Performance against extraterrestrial craft can't be measured, of course, but the best we can do is the best we can do. If a real alien threat comes for us in our lifetimes and the Stiletto won't do the job, then the human race is in trouble.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Addendum, Cdr. Paul Navarre, 18 March 2084:\par
\par
\pard Commander, I've just looked at these Stiletto-class ships on paper and in person, and they have blown my mind. It's hard to believe we built these little things in 2026 -- and that no one ever realised the kind of gold they held in their hands. That is, until now. What we have here is probably the most manoeuvrable aircraft ever built; it puts attack helicopters to shame and can turn circles around state-of-the-art jets. It does things most modern aircraft can't even dream of.\par
\par
It's also a nightmare to fly due to its inherent instability, especially at speed. The original file badly underplays that part of the tech assessment. However, our pilots inform me that they can handle it. Even better, we've managed to track down a complete intact specimen, and it's in the shop right now being restored to operation. I've given the go-ahead for a full refit and flight testing, on my authority. This is simply the best knife-fighting aircraft I have ever laid eyes on. We're going to need it.\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\fs24 BASE FACILITIES\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\par
Blueprints -- Alien Containment Facility\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Research Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 16 February 1958\par
By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The first priority of the Extraterrestrial Response Unit is to prepare for a time when it may be needed. The PHALANX Containment Facility is an important part of any invasion response plan. It contains atmospheric habitation chambers, interrogation machinery, nutrition distribution units, and all the other apparatus required to sustain any extraterrestrial life that we could comprehend.\par
\par
Firstly, the airtight habitation chambers provide a place to store and keep extraterrestrials (EXT) for a significant period of time. Their atmosphere generators are capable of pumping any individual chamber full of any desired mix of gases. This can provide an EXT with breathable air for at least several weeks, well beyond the expected lifespan for a specimen in our research programs. Trace elements that do not occur naturally on Earth may be difficult to come by, but the likelihood of this becoming an impediment to our research is infinitessimal. In a worst-case scenario, the atmosphere generators are designed to allow links to recovered life support equipment.\par
\par
Secondly, waldo-operated medical and interrogation apparatus is present in each habitation chamber, able to apply sedation, medication or other chemical injections via a pneumatic dart launcher, or to administer electroshocks for interrogation purposes. There is also a so-called "panic button" installed on each chamber individually and in the control room for every block of chambers. The panic button can immediately incinerate the contents of its chamber during an emergency.\par
\par
The chambers and corridors of the Containment Facility are specially designed to allow EXTs of any shape and size to be transported and held. The facility also has a fully-equipped cryo-morgue to store corpses and samples for later review.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
In the case of an invasion, the Containment Unit should be used to its full extent, storing both live and dead EXTs for research and allowing us to examine them in their living state. There is no greater priority than the discovery of the thought processes of the extraterrestrial mind, to learn their motivations and perhaps find a compromise, an opportunity for communication, or a suitable counterstrategy to neutralise the enemy once and for all.\par
\par
If a PHALANX base were to be attacked, immediate consideration should be given to hit the panic button on the entire Containment Facility. Unless there are irreplaceable specimens in storage, we cannot risk the attacking EXTs freeing their captured comrades. Immediate and complete sedation is another, more risky strategy -- however, I stress that we will not win a war with half measures.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
To whatever future Commanders might be reviewing this file:\par
Keep in mind that the machinery in the Containment Facility, like a fair portion of PHALANX equipment, has yet to undergo its true acid test against an extraterrestrial force. Upgrades or adjustments may be required for it to perform up to its design spec.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Command Centre\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 30 July 2027\par
By: Dr. Richard Strohm, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
To any noble personages reading this report -- yeah, right -- I should warn you that I'm somewhat drunk and am dictating the last of my paperwork before they close the base down forever. And I'll probably be long-dead before anyone digs up any info about this old project, so I can't get in trouble for whatever I say here. Just for the record, the bastarding SecDef can get buggered with a chainsaw. 'Budget cuts' my ass.\par
\par
Anyway, we've made some upgrades to the CC lately, so I've got to submit a new report.\par
\par
The Command Centre is the nerve centre of any PHALANX base. It coordinates all base activity from research to engineering, it gathers and interprets data from our radar installations, it serves as a war room for mission planning, and it is the C3 (Command/Control/Communications) hub that launches and directs our air-to-air interceptions. A base can still operate without a functional Command Centre, but it would be blind, deaf and dumb; our interceptors couldn't even launch for lack of traffic control.\par
\par
The CC is packed floor to ceiling with a brand new H-9000 mainframe and state-of-the-art communications gear, all of which is being ripped out by a gang of jackhammer-equipped thugs even as we speak. This equipment can't function without a power plant to supply it with enough electricity.\par
\par
In my experience, most of the command staff actually lives in the CC, but I'm told that lower-ranking individuals do get to see their bunks once every few days. Speaking for myself, though, that's anecdotal evidence at best.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
In the unlikely event that this type of installation is ever built again, keep it supplied with enough power to run it properly, and place it in a well-protected spot some distance from the entrance and hangars. If a base does get attacked, defending the CC should be a top priority, because without it we will be unable to put up any kind of effective fight until it can be repaired.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Addendum, Executive Officer Abel S. Howard, 18 March 2084:\par
\par
\pard The old CC blueprints have been updated by our engineers to replace the ancient H-9000 mainframe and terminals with up-to-date holo-workstations and a fresh supercomputer installation. All other components are still viable and effective.\par
\f1\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Power Plant\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 16 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
PHALANX has had trouble generating enough power to meet its needs ever since the organisation was first conceived in 1955. The old bases were forced to constantly pump in electricity from large, non-emitting sources (like hydroelectric dams) via many kilometres of wiring. They were completely dependent on outside power and were paralysed whenever the grid went down. It has taken the Russian nuclear revolution to enable full electrical autonomy for our underground bases, even when factoring high-energy research.\par
\par
Our plant of choice is the German HEFR (High-Energy Fission Reactor), a very efficient energy amplifier design. It is a subcritical reactor, a reactor that produces fission without achieving a sustained chain reaction. Instead it uses an external source of neutrons -- in this case a particle accelerator -- to stimulate the reaction. This method releases enough power to keep the particle accelerator running, as well as a power surplus that is redirected to feed the rest of the base.\par
\par
The HEFR runs on thorium rather than uranium, and most of its waste output will decay naturally to the radioactive level of coal ash in only 500 years. By comparison, the half-lives of the isotopes most frequently used in nuclear weapons and old reactors are 24,110 years for plutonium (Pu-239) and \b 700 million years\b0  for uranium (U-235). The short-lived waste output is particularly easy to handle for the depleted element postprocessor integrated into the design. After a full trip through the postprocessor, the HEFR's reactor waste will take only weeks to decay to human-safe levels of radioactivity.\par
\par
In our design, the reactor core and operational machinery are built into a special shell located far deeper than the rest of the base. Only the coolant tanks and control/service entrances poke up to the base level. This protects against the possible but minuscule risk of a meltdown in case we completely lose refrigeration of the core.\par
\par
I admit, I copied half of the specifics verbatim from the various briefs I've read -- nuclear physics are a touch above my head -- but I understand the stats well enough. The power output of one plant is enough to fully meet the needs of a standard base. If a base is equipped with many high-energy buildings such as laboratories, a second plant may be required, but a subsequent increase in base defences and security will be required to properly protect it. We can easily and safely store enough fuel on-site for a decade of continued operation. A protected container is installed with every reactor, and it can be refuelled if necessary.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Every base needs at least one power plant. Without a power plant, many facilities -- including the Command Centre -- can't function. Bases with exceptional power use may need two or more to keep all our facilities working at top performance.\par
\par
Our base defence strategy should pay particular attention to defending the power plant. Damage to the coolant tanks could be disastrous; if we lose too much coolant a meltdown will be hard to avoid. We may consider stepping down the reactor in anticipation of an attack, but it would take a long time to get it started up again, during which we wouldn't be able to operate any energy-intensive equipment. Things like radar, laboratory equipment, even hangar lifts.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 None.\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Laboratory\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 02 October 2021\par
By: Dr. Richard Strohm, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
There is a reason why PHALANX labs have been considered the best in the US for the past 50 years. We invented aircraft Stealth technology in the 1960s with the XD4 stealth interceptor and have remained at the forefront with the first production of artificial spider silk four years ago. These are the results of combining the brightest people with the finest equipment available. By keeping ourselves at the forefront, we ensure readiness against a possible extraterrestrial threat.\par
\par
Our new laboratories are equipped for any kind of research; biotechnology, nanotechnology, high-energy lasers, particle physics and more. There is nothing that can fit inside the laboratory's walls that cannot be properly studied, dissected or disassembled. It comes standard with growing vats that can create any organic matter we might need, hologram projectors for testing and 3D simulation, laser and maser installations, a miniature tokamak fusion chamber for plasma research, and a powerful particle accelerator.\par
\par
Any one of these installations would cost a fortune for a civilian operation or military contractor, but due to our experience and efficiency, we can build and maintain all of them at a fraction of the cost. Project times are also greatly reduced by having many types of equipment available at a moment's notice. Our high-level research makes full and continuous use of all of it.\par
\par
As long as we keep receiving the funding we need, the laboratory will remain one of the most essential parts of our defence strategy. In order to defeat any enemy, we must first come to know him, perhaps even understand him. To do that we'll need the best research facilities humanity can build, and ours are it.\par
\par
The Laboratory requires a working Power Plant and Command Centre to function.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 Our scientists don't need a lab to live in a base, but they can't do their work without one. We should construct and operate as many labs as may be needed and/or affordable. All extraterrestrial technology must be analysed and reverse-engineered (if possible) as soon as we can.\par
\par
As laboratories go, ours are quite cost-effective to build and provide work space for up to 10 scientists each, working full-time.\par
\par
During a possible base attack, they are a moderate-priority target. If extraterrestrial attackers are aware enough of our existence to attack our bases directly, they will most certainly want to shut down our research programs. There are easier targets that can threaten the survival entire base -- especially the power plant -- but if presented as a target of opportunity, the EXTs may very well take the time to set off explosives inside the lab, which tends to be full of volatile substances. Severe damage to the base could result if our labs are not adequately protected.\f1\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Addendum, \f1 Dr. Dolan Connor, \f0 16 March 2084:\f1\par
\pard\f0\par
Reviewing the files on PHALANX laboratory facilities, I have concluded that these blueprints were well ahead of their time. The design is still viable and can be adapted to our use with only minor equipment upgrades.\f1\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Base Entrance\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 26 January 1958\par
By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The Base Entrance is the first structure built at any new PHALANX location. It is the primary -- and sometimes only -- way for equipment and personnel to enter the base. It consists of a vehicle ramp and a stairway that allow easy movement between base and surface. A small, camouflaged gatehouse is built on top for security and will also hide the entrance from flyovers. Like all our surface installations, it is coated with radar- and infrared-absorbing paints to reduce the chance of detection.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
By its very nature, the Entrance is one of the most vulnerable facilities in any base. Hostile extraterrestrials will almost certainly attempt to gain access here. It is one of the focal points for the defence of a base, and should be placed relatively close to the Command Centre so that on-duty soldiers can respond to an attack with utmost alacrity.\par
\par
On its own the Entrance facility has little tactical value. It can be assumed that any EXTs will merely try to hold the Entrance and choose more tempting targets to actually assault, since the Entrance usually contains nothing volatile and it has no areas that are particularly sensitive to destruction. Having no advanced equipment or components, it is also quick and cheap to repair. If damaged, other structures can temporarily take over the Entrance's functions without significantly impeding base operation.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Storage\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 03 February 1958\par
By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The Storage facility is the base's repository for ammunition, weapons, and other equipment not currently in use. All small-arms, vehicle and aircraft ammunition that is not earmarked for emergency response resides in the Storage facility. It also serves as a garage for our battlefield vehicles. These remain in their bays until mission time, with fully-loaded magazines in case of a base attack.\par
\par
Cameras and alarms maintain round-the-clock vigilance to ensure no unauthorised removals are made. All removals must be approved by the officer on duty before the alarm is deactivated. Live ammunition and other sensitive equipment such as alien artifacts are kept in locked containers in the quartermaster's office behind rigorous security; checking anything out of locked storage requires the presence of the base quartermaster and written authorisation from the Command Centre.\par
\par
All item requisitions necessary for research, production and aircraft maintenance are handled by the appropriate officers; no input from the Base Commander is required. Only mission equipment and battlefield vehicles require the Commander's direct supervision.\par
\par
The Storage facility can fit a maximum of 50 standard-sized pallets of equipment. The amount of items in a pallet is relatively unimportant, size is the main restricting factor with regards to Storage facility space. The contents of each individual pallet are scrupulously tracked by magnetic labels and detailed punch-card logs.\par
\par
It does not depend upon any other base facilities to function.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
In the case of an invasion, we will need all the storage space we can get. Large stores of ammunition may need to be squared away for long periods of time. Recovered artifacts will need to be adequately contained and protected, as anything with nebulous alien capabilities should be kept in our explosion-proof lockers or be destroyed. If all the lockers are full, we may have no choice in the matter.\par
\par
During a base attack, the Storage facility would not be more than a target of opportunity. Any sensitive equipment in the facility will most likely be protected and require significant effort to destroy. Even the facility itself is cheap and easy to repair. The only threat comes from stored explosives and ammunition, which may present a risk due to the possibility of sympathetic detonation.\par
\par
Still, any extraterrestrials are unlikely to spend the time and effort getting into our explosion-proof lockers when there are easier targets nearby.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Living Quarters\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 22 January 1958\par
By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The Living Quarters facility is the standard habitation unit for PHALANX personnel. It provides living space and sanitation for up to 20 people and several necessary ancillary personnel.\par
\par
The facility's lower floor contains a soldiers' barracks, communal showers, bathrooms, and a common area where troops can spend their off-duty time. Each soldier receives 1 bunk and 1 locker partition to store their personel effects such as civilian clothes. It is also intended for storage of uniforms and other on-duty equipment.\par
\par
The upper floor contains officers' quarters, generally used for any ranking/important personnel. Each private quarters has its own bed, desk, storage space and sanitary unit, and the level as a whole sports shared but separate shower cabins. This level is located above-ground and receives natural sunlight.\par
\par
In the case of an emergency, the Living Quarters has a special partition designed to function as a disaster shelter where non-combat personnel can take refuge until the all clear is given. The shelter provides oxygen and supplies for up to 12 people for 1 week. The access hatch is made of tungsten-reinforced titanium and will open for little short of a nuclear blast.\par
\par
The Living Quarters does not depend upon any other structures to operate.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The Living Quarters are an important part of evacuation procedures in the event of a base attack. All non-combat personnel are to drop their current tasks immediately and retreat to the nearest shelter or strongpoint, be it the Command Centre, Living Quarters or other appropriate facility. Seven minutes after the attack alarm sounds, all disaster shelter doors will close -- regardless of how many personnel are accounted for -- and afterwards they will refuse to open except from the inside. Everyone who is not going to participate in the fight should be inside by that time.\par
\par
The facility is almost worthless from a tactical standpoint, and will most likely be ignored by any extraterrestrials. It is thoroughly unimportant during an attack, as well as cheap to build and easy to repair. There is very little a hostile force could do short of total destruction that can really inconvenience a Living Quarters.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Radar\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 18 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
Commander, we've had to make extensive changes to our old Radar facility designs to bring them up to date. The old report is no longer applicable, so I've decided to replace it with this one.\par
\par
Our Radar facility is not a large radar array in itself. It's actually a control centre for a series of camouflaged dishes placed on high ground around the base. There are between 8 and 12 dishes set up for each installation, depending on the available space and the dishes' individual coverage. Each dish is equipped with several means of detection rather than simply radar, as radar has trouble maintaining a lock on alien contacts. Supplemental systems include, but are not limited to, infrared and laser rangefinding.\par
\par
Building more than one Radar installation at a base will suitably increase the extent of our radar coverage.\par
\par
The facility is manned round-the-clock in 6-hour shifts, reviewing the processed data after our computers have gathered all discernible information from a contact. Human operators are absolutely necessary and should be present to supervise at all times; what the computers might dismiss as a radar ghost can turn out to be a stealthed alien harvester ready to hit a mass off civilians. Instinct and experience count just as much as software intelligence.\par
\par
Our radar is patched directly into the UN aircraft registry and can cross-reference the transponder data of any civilian aircraft with its flight plan and cargo manifest. Non-PHALANX military aircraft are also required to log their routes into our database, but we can't know for certain if the various militaries will be very conscientious in following that directive.\par
\par
\f0 The Radar facility cannot function without a working Power Plant or a Command Centre to coordinate our radar into our tactical efforts.\f1\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Since our radar-emitting dishes are not located at the base site, there is no direct threat of discovery to a base from using active radar. Considering the number of other military radar sources around, it's unlikely that alien craft will be able to learn anything from a dedicated backtrace. At most they'll be able to find the general area of a base.\par
\par
However, any UFOs spotted patrolling the area may be trying to zero in on our installation, and should not be allowed to complete their mission under any circumstances.\par
\par
During an attack, the Radar facility will be at high risk. It is our eyes and ears. Without working radar coverage, we wouldn't be able to see the UFOs we're supposed to respond to. If any attacking aliens approach the facility they will almost certainly attempt to damage or destroy it with explosives. We must not let that happen.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 Addendum, Executive Officer Abel S. Howard, 18 March 2084:\f1\par
\par
We should not consider the Radar facility to be an end-all solution to UFO detection. Even with supplemental systems our coverage is not fully reliable, and we should research ways to improve our detection technology if we're to have any chance of stopping the bastards.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Workshop\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 28 January 1958\par
By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The PHALANX Workshop is a small-scale production line equipped with the most high-tech military manufacturing processes available. It is designed for the production of classified materials and parts for which no other facility on Earth is equipped; even the replication of extraterrestrial technology.\par
\par
All parts produced by the Workshop are machined by hand with as much robotic assistance as possible. It requires the most highly-skilled engineers in the world to operate its advanced machinery, and to install new machines whenever our researchers devise a new or improved production process. The Workshop provides working space for up to 10 engineers at once.\par
\par
A Power Plant is required to keep the production line going. Without an operational plant, all production must be halted until power is restored. The Workshop also depends upon a Command Centre to coordinate construction efforts.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
During a possible EXT war, we will be depending heavily on Workshop facilities to manufacture the weapons we need. H.G. Wells's War of the Worlds comes to mind for its frightening depiction of how our present technology might fare against an invasion force. Even the A-bomb may not be a sufficient deterrent. In a worst-case scenario we may be forced to resort to nuclear missiles if we have no other hope of staving off the assault.\par
\par
The Workshop is a high-security area due to its sensitive, often classified projects. The various hazardous or volatile substances used in production make it a dangerous place to be, and it will certainly be at risk during any base attack as a target of opportunity or even a moderate-risk mission objective. Shutting down our production for any length of time would be a victory for any extraterrestrial hostiles, especially if they manage to destroy a large project in progress such as the construction of a new aircraft.\par
\par
Reproducing interplanetary spacecraft technology will be one of the absolute necessities if we are ever to take the initiative against an extraterrestrial force. We cannot sit on Earth maintaining a defensive posture if we wish to put a definitive end to a military conflict. Our faithful Workshops and Laboratories are what will arm us against these nightmare scenarios.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Large Hangar\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 11 August 2008\par
By: Gen. E. Baxter, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
Due to the recent restructuring of our airfleet, we've had to make a complete reassessment and redesign of our hangar facilities. The VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) requirement for all new PHALANX aircraft has eliminated our need for runways. This has allowed us to move all hangar facilities into the actual base to improve security and response times.\par
\par
The Large Hangar provides underground space to store and maintain 1 large VTOL aircraft. Repairs, rearmament and refuelling can be carried out in complete obscurity. The aircraft never even sees the light of day until it's time for launch. During a launch, the hangar roof folds open and the large hydraulic lift raises the aircraft to a position above the roof where it can safely take off.\par
\par
For landing procedures, the lift features several tall catchhooks that -- once engaged by the undercarrige of a hovering pilot -- gently pull the aircraft down into a landing position. The catchhooks can intelligently adjust their own grip and even pass the grip from hook to hook to properly line up the undercarriage for landing. Once the catchhooks have snared the undercarriage and pulled it down to the landing surface, all the pilot needs to do is power down his engines. The system is simple and easy to use once a pilot gets the hang of it.\par
\par
A nearly-identical system has been implemented for the Small Hangar.\par
\par
The Large Hangar cannot house small craft due to incompatible support equipment such as fuel lines.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The primary function of the Large Hangar is to house dropships for rapid deployment of troops to sites of alien activity. Alternately it can house and support larger combat craft. Please refer to specific aircraft files to review their capabilities and deployment strategy.\par
\par
Every PHALANX aircraft requires 1 hangar of appropriate size for storage, maintenance and deployment.\par
\par
Hangars are a particularly vulnerable installation due to their direct connection to the surface. They will be a primary point of entrance for any extraterrestrial attackers. They are an extreme damage risk, filled with volatiles such as jet fuel and possibly high-explosive aircraft munitions. Worse, any aircraft left behind at the base will be a highly tempting target; severe damage to our interceptors -- or even more frightening, the dropship -- might put us out of action for weeks.\par
\par
If possible, all aircraft should be scrambled before an impending base attack and moved out of the area until the attack is over. They may be engaged in the air by an approaching UFO, but at least they will have the advantage of being able to manoeuvre. Still, this may not always be a viable tactic. Scrambling our craft within range of a heavily-armed attack ship could have more disastrous results than leaving them in their hangars, as tempting a target as that would make them.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Small Hangar\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 11 August 2008\par
By: Gen. E. Baxter, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
Due to the recent restructuring of our airfleet, we've had to make a complete reassessment and redesign of our hangar facilities. The VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) requirement for all new PHALANX aircraft has eliminated our need for runways. This has allowed us to move all hangar facilities into the actual base to improve security and response times.\par
\par
The Small Hangar provides underground space to store and maintain 1 small VTOL aircraft. Repairs, rearmament and refuelling can be carried out in complete obscurity. The aircraft never even sees the light of day until it's time for launch. During a launch, the hangar roof folds open and the large hydraulic lift raises the aircraft to a position above the roof where it can safely take off.\par
\par
For landing procedures, the lift features several tall catchhooks that -- once engaged by the undercarrige of a hovering pilot -- gently pull the aircraft down into a landing position. The catchhooks can intelligently adjust their own grip and even pass the grip from hook to hook to properly line up the undercarriage for landing. Once the catchhooks have snared the undercarriage and pulled it down to the landing surface, all the pilot needs to do is power down his engines. The system is simple and easy to use once a pilot gets the hang of it.\par
\par
A nearly-identical system has been implemented for the Large Hangar.\par
\par
Obviously the Small Hangar cannot house large craft due to size considerations.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The primary function of the Small Hangar is to house interceptors for the interception of airborne UFOs. Please refer to specific aircraft files to review their capabilities and deployment strategy.\par
\par
Every PHALANX aircraft requires 1 hangar of appropriate size for storage, maintenance and deployment.\par
\par
Hangars are a particularly vulnerable installation due to their direct connection to the surface. They will be a primary point of entrance for any extraterrestrial attackers. They are an extreme damage risk, filled with volatiles such as jet fuel and possibly high-explosive aircraft munitions. Worse, any aircraft left behind at the base will be a highly tempting target; severe damage to our interceptors -- or even more frightening, the dropship -- might put us out of action for weeks.\par
\par
If possible, all aircraft should be scrambled before an impending base attack and moved out of the area until the attack is over. They may be engaged in the air by an approaching UFO, but at least they will have the advantage of being able to manoeuvre. Still, this may not always be a viable tactic. Scrambling our craft within range of a heavily-armed attack ship could have more disastrous results than leaving them in their hangars, as tempting a target as that would make them.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Team Room\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 11 August 2008\par
By: Gen. E. Baxter, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
It is painfully clear that soldiers during wartime lead highly stressful lives. In order to maintain morale they need a place to unwind and interact in a rank-free environment. We have sought to provide this kind of R&R in the form of the Team Room facility.\par
\par
It is equipped with a variety of entertainments, from sports tables to high-tech game consoles. It also features a modest wall-mounted cinema display for communal movie screenings. There are vending machines with alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and a separate sitting room for our soldiers to achieve some amount of privacy from the closeness of base living. To this end the sitting room can be locked from the inside for up to 30 minutes per day by each team member. The lock may be overridden from the Control Centre or by a present Command Centre or medical officer in case of an emergency.\par
\par
All our equipment requires maintenance, and I would argue that our soldiers require the most maintenance of all. The Team Room is one of the best ways to keep them mentally healthy and in fighting trim.\par
\par
Unless it has access to an operational Power Plant, the Team Room will be shut down to avoid non-vital power consumption.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
The Team Room is an important tool in maintaining good morale amongst our soldiers and should be built in any base that houses a combat team. It provides them with various vital means of stress relief, which will ease the stressful effects of continued combat, life-threatening situations, and the near-certain death of team members in the field. High morale is essential for our battlefield performance and must be maintained at all costs.\par
\par
However, I must stress that the Team Room is not a replacement for base leave. Our soldiers will still need to be allowed off-base from time to time in order to maintain their connection with the outside world and their sanity.\par
\par
For the purposes of a base attack, the Team Room is an extremely low-risk installation with little to no strategic value. If encountered by extraterrestrial attackers, it will almost certainly be bypassed altogether in favour of more sensitive installations.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Small UFO Hangar\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Research Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 19 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
These are the finished plans for our new UFO storage hangars. They are designed to house one recovered UFO for disassembly, and will be marked as occupied until the craft has been fully broken down into its component parts and the parts transferred to base Storage. \f0 UFOs require significant disassembly before they will fit inside Storage, so they must be dismantled before we can begin to store or use the recovered parts. Doing this job on-site is highly inadvisable. It could be hazardous to the health of our scientists and engineers, it might attract looters, and it would without doubt severely compromise the safety and secrecy of our operation.\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The importance of studying captured UFOs should be more than obvious. It will give us insight into the workings and vulnerabilities of alien craft, and it may result in the discovery of new techniques to improve our own craft's effectiveness. Once a recovered UFO is secured for transport, it is carried to a PHALANX base by means of transport helicopters. Salvage operations are handled by local UN forces to relieve pressure on our limited resources.\par
\par
The Small UFO Hangar can store 1 alien craft of limited size. We will assess the size of each UFO type as we encounter them and determine what hangar is required to store them.\par
\pard\f1\par
\f0 The Small UFO Hangar requires a Power Plant to feed its high-power machinery and plasma-based cutting tools. It also requires a Workshop and Storage to handle dismantling.\f1\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 All salvaged UFOs should be permanently disabled once delivered into our hands. Should the base come under attack from alien forces, we can't afford the extra risk of stored UFOs being reactivated and used against us. Even without a drive unit, any weapon systems left active would present a grave threat to our base.\par
\par
If this procedure is followed, the UFO Hangar will be of minor tactical importance to alien attackers and will most likely be ignored except as a target of opportunity. Preventing us from dismantling UFOs would be far less attractive than shutting down our research or production, or destroying our base outright.\par
\par
We will most likely be needing several of these installations to strip and/or examine several UFOs at a time. However, if necessary, we can remove a craft from our hangars and have it destroyed to make room for a new one. In this scenario all parts already transferred to Storage will be available, but everything not yet removed from the UFO will be destroyed with it.\f1\par
\pard\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Large UFO Hangar\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Research Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 19 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
These are the finished plans for our new UFO storage hangars. They are designed to house one recovered UFO for disassembly, and will be marked as occupied until the craft has been fully broken down into its component parts and the parts transferred to base Storage. \f0 UFOs require significant disassembly before they will fit inside Storage, so they must be dismantled before we can begin to store or use the recovered parts. Doing this job on-site is highly inadvisable. It could be hazardous to the health of our scientists and engineers, it might attract looters, and it would without doubt severely compromise the safety and secrecy of our operation.\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The importance of studying captured UFOs should be more than obvious. It will give us insight into the workings and vulnerabilities of alien craft, and it may result in the discovery of new techniques to improve our own craft's effectiveness. Once a recovered UFO is secured for transport, it is carried to a PHALANX base by means of transport helicopters. Salvage operations are handled by local UN forces to relieve pressure on our limited resources.\par
\par
The Large UFO Hangar can store 1 alien craft of significant size. We will assess the size of each UFO type as we encounter them and determine what hangar is required to store them.\par
\pard\f1\par
\f0 The Large UFO Hangar requires a Power Plant to feed its high-power machinery and plasma-based cutting tools. It also requires a Workshop and Storage to handle the dismantling.\f1\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 All salvaged UFOs should be permanently disabled once delivered into our hands. Should the base come under attack from alien forces, we can't afford the extra risk of stored UFOs being reactivated and used against us. Even without a drive unit, any weapon systems left active would present a grave threat to our base.\par
\par
If this procedure is followed, the UFO Hangar will be of minor tactical importance to alien attackers and will most likely be ignored except as a target of opportunity. Preventing us from dismantling UFOs would be far less attractive than shutting down our research or production, or destroying our base outright.\par
\par
We will most likely be needing several of these installations to strip and/or examine several UFOs at a time. However, if necessary, we can remove a craft from our hangars and have it destroyed to make room for a new one. In this scenario all parts already transferred to Storage will be available, but everything not yet removed from the UFO will be destroyed with it.\f1\par
\pard\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Hospital\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 19 March 2084\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 By: Surgeon-Captain Helen Floydd, Medical Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\pard\f1\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
This conflict is going to be ugly, Commander. In order to treat the heavily-injured battlefield casualties we're going to see, we need advanced facilities with equipment no standard civilian or military hospital has available. This much is obvious; hundreds died needlessly in Mumbai hospitals because no proper machinery was available to treat the horrific bone-deep plasma burns inflicted by the alien weapons. We must be better prepared than that.\par
\par
The old PHALANX hospital designs are woefully inadequate to deal with the coming storm. They have never been updated since their creation in 1960 and contained little to no purpose-designed equipment. In the end we've had to completely replace them with new plans created by myself, with the help of Cdr. Navarre and our building experts. How the previous management expected to deal with battle wounds from unknown alien weaponry I will never know.\par
\par
As it stands, our hospital facilities are now the finest in the world. We are the leading experts in treating burn trauma, especially the removal and regeneration of charred tissue. We encourage injured flesh to regrow itself through intensive therapy which includes a heavy course of drugs, electrical nerve and muscle stimulation, and nanobot infusions directly into the wound. Theoretically, we should be able to restore any living human being to full health in six weeks. This includes psychological evaluation and injury counselling. Lighter injuries will of course take less time to heal.\par
\par
We also have facilities to carry out amputation and major bionic surgery. Powerful cybernetic limbs have been made available to us by our military sources around the world, as well as armoured torso cages, electronic eyes and other internal machinery. These can be installed into our soldiers at the Hospital facility to upgrade their combat efficiency if we can afford the high cost and convalescence time.\par
\par
The Hospital requires a Power Plant to fuel its high and continuous electricity demand.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Every base with armed-response troops should contain a Hospital for treatment. If there is no PHALANX Hospital available, soldiers will have to be sent out to standard hospitals where suboptimal treatment could result in a permanent loss of ability or even death.\par
\par
The advantages of upgrading our soldiers with mechanical parts should be obvious. These procedures can only be performed on a healthy body; convalescing troops who have sustained recent physical hardships or surgery must complete their convalescence before they can become eligible for bionic upgrades. Keep in mind also that bionic limb or eye replacement may have a negative impact on the patient's morale.\par
\par
Tactically, the Hospital is a moderate threat area. The aliens may try to kill our wounded and deprive us of proper medical facilities, but it is relatively unlikely that any attackers would select the Hospital as their primary target. Still, if we are attacked, a guard should be posted at the Hospital immediately.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Missile Battery\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 18 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
Missiles have gotten more and more dangerous since World War 2, while countermeasure technologies have only been becoming effective since the start of the 21st century. In a contest between attack and defence, the attacker has always had the advantage. However, this has not deterred the aliens from developing defences to blow our minds.\par
\line As an example, GEU forces have engaged alien craft with SAMs (Surface-to-Air Missiles) in the skies above Bonn. Forty missiles were launched from batteries across Europe while they had radar lock on two of the alien craft. Later, nearby infantry units fired between twelve and fifteen shoulder-mounted anti-air weapons.\par
\par
The number of hits scored? One. Just one. The UFO suffered a minor drop in acceleration during its landing at Bonn and later took off again without a hitch.\par
\par
The conclusions are obvious: alien EW (Electronic Warfare) capability is miles in advance of our own. However, we at PHALANX have made a thorough study of the sole hit scored, and it was not a matter of luck. What happened is that the UFO exposed itself at a less stealthy angle while dodging other incoming munitions, allowing the missile to hold lock all the way to its target.\par
\par
This proves that the aliens are not invulnerable to our missiles. We simply need the best ones for the job. These realisations have led us to adapt some old missile battery plans and reequip them with brand-new launchers. Our results are promising.\par
\par
The battery consists of 4 launchers that 'pop up' to the surface when engaging a target. Each launcher carries 20 of the AA51 "Cicada" SAM. This is the most advanced missile on Earth, packing more electronics than an airliner, designed to knock enemy aircraft right out of the sky regardless of how fast they're going. There is no better emergency defence weapon on the planet at the time of this writing.\par
\par
Against alien craft, the "Cicada"'s chances to hit will still be low, but in sufficient numbers it \b will\b0  hurt them. The missile and its electronics suite are of course highly expensive, well outside our budget range in the numbers required to succesfully engage incoming UFOs. Fortunately the UN has agreed to supply us all standard SAMs from its own strategic reserves at no cost to us.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
If built at one of our bases, the missile battery can be ordered to engage any UFO in range or wait until a UFO is identified as preparing to attack the base in question. This decision is up to the Base Commander. Assisting our interceptors by 'softening up' a UFO with SAMs would help take some of the pressure off our pilots and aircraft, but there is simply no way to completely hide our missile launches despite our best attempts to camouflage them. Repeated large-scale launches will give away our position sooner or later.\par
\par
The missile battery will be at moderate risk during a base attack. It is designed to prevent base attacks; if one has gotten through, it should no longer matter to the current attackers unless they're paving the way for a follow-up. It may be a tempting target of opportunity, however, because while our missiles are well-protected they will detonate if subjected to enough abuse. An explosion in the missile battery could have disastrous effects on the facility and the base at large.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
Blueprints -- Training Simulator\par
\par
\ul\b\fs22 CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\par
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit\par
Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only\par
Filed: 17 March 2084\par
By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command\par
\par
\par
\ul Overview\ulnone\par
\par
The latest advances in virtual-reality simulation and holographic projectors come together in our Training Simulator. When linked with the Command Centre mainframe, this facility can recreate any emergency or tactical situation down to the smallest detail. The simulations are fully convincing and can become so intense that all our personnel must be psychologically certified to prove they're able to handle the drills.\par
\par
The Training Simulator plays a major part in the daily lives of our soldiers. On an ordinary day, battle-ready troops will spend approximately 6 out of 20 duty hours in the simulator. This will increase their skills over time and raise their readiness for combat against alien opponents. The simulator does the same thing for our pilots, equipped with an electronic cockpit and a special pressure suit that realistically simulates gee stresses for a 100% accurate simulation of air combat based on our best estimate of UFO capabilities.\par
\par
The simulator contains approximations of several recorded scenarios from Mumbai, which are -- as of this writing -- the only infantry combat experiences we've had with the alien threat. Other scenarios have been created whole cloth, the aliens commanded either by combat instructors or an artificial intelligence program designed to emulate alien behaviour and tactics that we've observed.\par
\par
Unfortunately, our simulation options are limited by our lack of experience fighting aliens. So far we have only encountered the one alien race, the 'greys', and the robotic spiders we've seen on camera. Both types of alien are highly dangerous and have tremendously outperformed human troops during the engagements we've recorded. Worse, there may be more types of alien we have not yet seen and about whom we would have no tactical data. The relative performance of our troops may be impaired until we can build up a larger body of experience about how alien squads operate and communicate, and perhaps discover their goals and intentions for Earth.\par
\par
All engagements involving PHALANX troops are recorded via cameras and will be turned into simulator scenarios where possible. It is highly effective for our soldiers to relive an engagement and see where they may have made mistakes or could have been more effective, and for new recruits to learn from our amassed experience.\par
\par
\par
\ul Recommended Doctrine\ulnone\par
\par
Any base housing an armed response team needs a Training Simulator. The simulator is absolutely vital for nurturing and maintaining our soldiers' combat skills and physical fitness. The simulator also develops the soldier's individual talents and assists in understanding his or her combat experiences. Without proper training, our troops don't stand a chance of surviving in the field.\par
\par
The Training Simulator will be a minor risk during a base attack. It would be expensive to repair, yes, but both tactically and strategically it has little value to an attacker. It stores no volatiles or live munitions, and shutting it down while being repaired would not significantly impede our operations.\par
\par
\par
\ul Addenda\ulnone\par
\par
None.\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b RADAR TOWER\ulnone\par
\b0\par
The radar tower is an unmanned, expendable installation that can be placed anywhere in the world to boost our detection range. It is cheap to build and highly useful, but its camouflage is not very effective. Alien craft may detect the active scanning and attempt to destroy the tower once they find it. It is recommended that radar towers be protected with SAM sites.\par
\par
\par
\par
\ul\b SAM SITE\ulnone\par
\b0\par
The SAM site is an unmanned, expendable installation that can be placed anywhere in the world to automatically engage detected UFOs with surface-to-air missiles. It is cheap to build and highly useful, but its camouflage is not very effective. Alien craft may detect the missile launches and attempt to destroy the site once they find it. The SAM site is sturdy but will succumb to repeated bombing. Missile reloads are delivered free to our sites by UN forces.\par
\par
\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\lang2057\b\f0\fs24 MISC RESEARCH\fs28\par
\pard\lang1033\b0\f1\fs20\par
\lang2057\b\f0\fs24\par
}
 
